{\rtf1\defformat\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss Chicago;}{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f5\fscript Venice;}{\f6\fdecor London;}{\f7\fdecor Athens;}{\f8\fdecor San Francisco;}{\f11\fnil Cairo;}{\f12\fnil Los Angeles;}
{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f18\fnil Zapf Chancery;}{\f20\froman Times;}{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}{\f24\fnil Mobile;}{\f34\fnil Alexis;}{\f58\fnil Wartburg;}{\f130\fnil Musicfont;}
{\f135\fnil Boston;}{\f217\fnil ChordFont;}{\f242\fnil Sonata;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\stylesheet{\s249\li720\ri-360\sa120 \i\f22\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 7;}{\s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 \sbasedon251\snext0 heading 6;}{\s251\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 \sbasedon252\snext0 heading 5;}{
\s252\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 \sbasedon253\snext0 heading 4;}{\s253\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 \sbasedon254\snext0 heading 3;}{\s254\li180\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn\brdrb\brdrs \b\f20\fs36 \sbasedon255\snext0 heading 2;}{
\s255\li360\ri-360\sb240\sa240\keepn\brdrb\brdrs \b\f20\fs48 \sbasedon0\snext0 heading 1;}{\li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \sbasedon222\snext0 Normal;}{\s1\fi-540\li900\ri-360\sa120\tx900 \f20 \sbasedon0\snext1 numbered list;}{
\s2\fi-540\li1440\ri-360\sa120\tx1440 \f20 \sbasedon0\snext2 numbered list 1;}{\s3\fi-540\li1980\ri-360\sa120\tx1980 \f20 \sbasedon0\snext3 numbered list 2;}{\s4\fi-280\li900\ri-360\sa120\tx900 \f20 \sbasedon1\snext4 bullet list;}{
\s5\fi-280\li1440\ri-360\sa120\tx1440 \f20 \sbasedon2\snext5 bullet list 1;}{\s6\fi-280\li1980\ri-360\sa120\tx1980 \f20 \sbasedon3\snext6 bullet list 2;}{\s7\fi-3960\li4320\ri-360\sa120\tx4320 \f20 \sbasedon0\snext7 glossary;}{
\s8\fi-3960\li4860\ri-360\sa120\tx4860 \f20 \sbasedon7\snext8 glossary 1;}{\s9\fi-3960\li5400\ri-360\sa120\tx5400 \f20 \sbasedon8\snext9 glossary 2;}{\s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 
\sbasedon0\snext10 pre;}{\s11\li360\ri-360\sa120 \i\f20 \sbasedon0\snext11 address;}{\s12\li1440\ri1440\sa120 \i\f20 \sbasedon0\snext12 blockquote;}{\s13\ri-360\sb120\sa120\brdrb\brdrth \f20 \sbasedon0\snext0 hr;}}{\info{\title GeoTIFF Spec}{\author 
Niles D. Ritter}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\fracwidth \sectd \sbknone\linemod0\linex0\cols1\endnhere \pard\plain \s255\li360\ri-360\sb240\sa240\keepn\brdrb\brdrs \b\f20\fs48 GeoTIFF Format Specification\par 
GeoTIFF Revision 1.0\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20    Specification Version: 1.8.1 \par 
   Last Modified: 31 October, 1995\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s254\li180\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn\brdrb\brdrs \b\f20\fs36 Authors:\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20    Niles Ritter, Jet Propulsion Laboratory\par 
   Cartographic Applications Group\par 
   4800 Oak Grove Dr.\par 
   Pasadena, CA 91109\par 
   email:ndr@tazboy.jpl.nasa.gov      \par 
   \par 
   Mike Ruth, SPOT Image Corp\par 
   Product Development Group\par 
   1897 Preston White Dr.\par 
   Reston, VA 22091\par 
   email:ruth@spot.com\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s254\li180\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn\brdrb\brdrs \b\f20\fs36 Acknowledgments:\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 GeoTIFF Working Group:\par 
    Mike Ruth, Niles Ritter, Ed Grissom, Brett Borup, George Galang,\par 
    John Haller, Gary Stephenson, Steve Covington, Tim Nagy, \par 
    Jamie Moyers, Jim Stickley,Joe Messina, Yves Somer.\par 
\par 
Additional advice from discussions with Tom Lane, Sam Leffler regarding      \par 
TIFF implementations. \par 
\par 
Roger Lott, Fredrik Lundh, and Jarle Land provided valuable information    \par 
regarding projections, projection code databases and geodetics.\par 
   \par 
GeoTIFF Mailing list:  \par 
    Posting: geotiff@tazboy.jpl.nasa.gov\par 
    Subscription: geotiff-request@tazboy.jpl.nasa.gov\par 
       (send message "subscribe geotiff your-name-here").\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20    \par 
\pard\plain \s254\li180\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn\brdrb\brdrs \b\f20\fs36 Disclaimers and Notes for This Version:\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
This proposal has not been approved by SPOT, JPL, or any other organization. This represents a proposal, which derives from many discussions between an international body of TIFF users and developers.\par 
 \par 
The authors and their sponsors assume no liability for any special, incidental, indirect or consequ
ences of any kind, or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether or not advised of the possibility of damage, and on any theory of liability, arising out of or in connection with the use of this specification.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s254\li180\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn\brdrb\brdrs \b\f20\fs36 Copyright\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
Portions of this specification are copyrighted by Niles Ritter and Mike Ruth. Permission to copy without fee all or part of this material is granted provided that the copies are not made or distributed for direct or commercial advantage and this copyright
 notice appears.\par 
  \par 
\pard\plain \s254\li180\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn\brdrb\brdrs \b\f20\fs36 Licenses and Trademarks\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
Aldus and Adobe are registered trademarks, and TIFF is a registered trademark of Aldus Corp., now owned by Adobe. SPOT Image, ESRI, ERDAS, ARC/Info, Intergraph and Softdesk are registered trademarks. \par 
\pard\plain \s254\li180\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn\brdrb\brdrs \b\f20\fs36 Concurrence\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
  The following members of the GeoTIFF working group have reviewed and approved of this revision. \par 
   \par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20    Name                   Organization              Representing\par 
   --------------------   -----------------------   ------------\par 
   Niles Ritter           Jet Propulsion Labs       JPL Carto Group\par 
   Mike Ruth              SPOT Image Corp. (USA)     SPOT Image Corp. (USA)\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20    \par 
+--------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s254\li180\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn\brdrb\brdrs \b\f20\fs36 Table of Contents\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +--------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
+--------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s254\li180\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn\brdrb\brdrs \b\f20\fs36 1  Introduction  \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +--------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s253\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 1.1 About this Specification\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
This is a description of a proposal to specify the content and structure of a group of industry-standard tag sets for the management of georeference or geocoded raster imagery using Aldus-Adobe's public domain Tagged-Image File Format (TIFF). \par 
  \par 
This specification closely follows the organization and structure of the TIFF specification document.\par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s252\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 1.1.1 Background\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
TIFF has emerged as one of the world's most popular raster file formats. But TIFF remains limited in cartographic applications, since no publicly available, stable structure for conveying geographic information presently exists in the public domain.\par 
\par 

Several private solutions exist for recording cartographic information in TIFF tags. Intergraph has a mature and sophisticated geotie tag implementation, but this remains within the private TIFF tagset registered exclusively to Intergraph. Other companies 
(such as ESRI, and Island Graphics) have geographic solutions which are also proprietary or limited by specific application to their software's architecture. \par 
\par 

Many GIS companies, raster data providers, and their clients have requested that the companies concerned with delivery and exploitation of raster geographic imagery develop a publicly available, platform interoperable standard for the support of geographic
 TIFF imagery. Such TIFF imagery would originate from satellite imaging platforms, aerial platforms, scans of aerial photography or paper maps, or as a result of geographic analysis. TIFF images which were sup
ported by the public "geotie" tagset would be able to be read and positioned correctly in any GIS or digital mapping system which supports the "GeoTIFF" standard, as proposed in this document. \par 
\par 

The savings to the users and providers of raster data and exploitation softwares are potentially significant. With a platform interoperable GeoTIFF file, companies could stop spending excessive development resource in support of any and all proprietary for
mats which are invented. Data providers may be able to produc
e off-the-shelf imagery products which can be delivered in the "generic" TIFF format quickly and possibly at lower cost. End-users will have the advantage of developed software that exploits the GeoTIFF tags transparently. Most importantly, the same raster
 TIFF image which can be read and modified in one GIS environment may be equally exploitable in another GIS environment without requiring any file duplication or import/export operation. \par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s252\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 1.1.2 History\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
The initial efforts to define a TIFF "geotie" specification began under the leadership of Ed Grissom at Intergraph, and
 others in the early 1990's. In 1994 a formal GeoTIFF mailing-list was created and maintained by Niles Ritter at JPL, which quickly grew to over 140 subscribers from government and industry. The purpose of the list is to discuss common goals and interests 
in developing an industry-wide GeoTIFF standard, and culminated in a conference in March of 1995 hosted by SPOT Image, with representatives from USGS, Int
ergraph, ESRI, ERDAS, SoftDesk, MapInfo, NASA/JPL, and others, in which the current working proposal for GeoTIFF was outlined. The outline was condensed into a prerelease GeoTIFF specification document by Niles Ritter, and Mike Ruth of SPOT Image.\par 

Following discussions with Dr. Roger Lott of the European Petroleum Survey Group (EPSG), the GeoTIFF projection parametrization method was extensively modified, and brought into compatibility with both the POSC Epicentre model, and the Federal Geographic D
ata Committee (FGDC) metadata approaches.\par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s252\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 1.1.3 Scope\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 

The GeoTIFF spec defines a set of TIFF tags provided to describe all "Cartographic" information associated with TIFF imagery that originates from satellite imaging systems, scanned aerial photography, scanned maps, digital elevation models, or as a result 
of geographic analyses. Its aim is to allow means for tying a raster image to a known model space or map projection, and for describing those projections.\par 
\par 

GeoTIFF does not intend to become a replacement for existing geographic data interchange standards, such as the USGS SDTS standard or the FGDC metadata standard. Rather, it aims to augment an existing popular raster-data format to support georeferencing an
d geocoding information.\par 
\par 
The tags documented in this spec are to be considered completely orthogonal to the raster-data descriptions of the TIFF spec, and impose no restrictions on how the standard TIFF tags are to be interpreted, which color spaces or co
mpression types are to be used, etc.\par 
 \par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s252\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 1.1.4 Features\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 GeoTIFF fully complies with the TIFF 6.0 specifications, and its extensions do not in any way go against the TIFF recommendations, nor do they limit the scope of raster data supported by TIFF.\par 
\par 
GeoTIFF uses a small set of reserved TIFF tags to store a broad range of georeferencing information, catering to geographic as well as projected coordinate systems needs. Projections include UTM, US State Plane and National Gr
ids, as well as the underlying projection types such as Transverse Mercator, Lambert Conformal Conic, etc. No information is stored in private structures, IFD's or other mechanisms which would hide information from naive TIFF reading software.\par 
\par 

GeoTIFF uses a "MetaTag" (GeoKey) approach to encode dozens of information elements into just 6 tags, taking advantage of TIFF platform-independent data format representation to avoid cross-platform interchange difficulties. These keys are designed in a ma
nner parallel to standard TIFF tags, and closely follow the TIFF discipline in their structure and layout. New keys may be defined as needs arise, within the current framework, and without requiring the allocation of new tags from Aldus/Adobe.\par 
\par 

GeoTIFF uses numerical codes to describe projection types, coordinate systems, datums, ellipsoids, etc. The projection, datums and ellipsoid codes are derived from the EPSG list compiled by the Petrotechnical Open Software Corporation (POSC), and mechanism
s for adding further international projections, datums
 and ellipsoids has been established. The GeoTIFF information content is designed to be compatible with the data decomposition approach used by the National Spatial Data Infrastructure (NSDI) of the U.S. Federal Geographic Data Committee (FGDC).\par 
\par 
While GeoTIFF provides a robust framework for specifying a broad class of existing Projected coordinate systems, it is also fully extensible, permitting internal, private or proprietary information storage. However, since this standar
d arose from the need to avoid multiple proprietary encoding systems, use of private implementations is to be discouraged.\par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s253\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 1.2 Revision Notes\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
This is the final release of GeoTIFF Revision 1.0, supporting the new EPSG 2.x codes.\par 
\par 
Changes from 1.8 document: minor spelling and typo corrections.\par 
\par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s252\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 1.2.1 Revision Nomenclature\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 A Revision of GeoTIFF specifications will be denoted by two integers separated by a decimal, indicating the Major and Minor revision numbers. GeoTIFF stores most of its information 
using a "Key-Code" pairing system; the Major revision number will only be incremented when a substantial addition or modification is made to the list of information Keys, while the Minor Revision number permits incremental augmentation of the list of valid
 codes.\par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s252\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 1.2.2 New Features\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20  \par 
Revision 1.0 New Transformation Matrix Tag.\par 
Index Table added in Section 6.4 to assist in looking up geodesy codes.\par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s252\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 1.2.3 Clarifications\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Revision 1.0:\par 
\par 
 o The former ModelTransformationTag (33920) conflicts with\par 
   an internal Intergraph implementation and is being deprecated, \par 
   in favor of a new tag (34264, registered to JPL).\par 
\par 
 o The "Origin" keys have been renamed with "Natural" or "Nat" \par 
   prefixes, to distinguish from "False" origins, and to have\par 
   a closer match to EPSG/POSC terminology. All Revision 0.2\par 
   names shall be recognized in a backward-compatible fashion.\par 
\par 
 o The GeoTIFF/Cartlab web page addresses have been moved out\par 
   of the author's ~ndr/ personal directory, and may now be found at:\par 
\par 
    http://www-mipl.jpl.nasa.gov/cartlab/geotiff/geotiff.html\par 
\par 
Revision 0.2:\par 
\par 
 o South Oriented Gauss Conformal is Transverse Mercator with South\par 
   pointing up, and so has been given a distinct code, rather than\par 
   aliased to Transverse Mercator.\par 
\par 
Revision 0.1:\par 
\par 
 o GeoTIFF-writers shall store the GeoKey entries in key-sorted order\par 
   within the GeoKeyDirectoryTag. This is a change from preliminary\par 
   discussions which permitted arbitrary order, and more closely follows\par 
   the TIFF discipline.\par 
\par 
 o The third value "ScaleZ" in ModelPixelScaleTag = (ScaleX, ScaleY,\par 
   ScaleZ) shall by default be set to 0, not 1, as suggested in preliminary\par 
   discussions. This is because most standard model spaces are\par 
   2-dimensional (flat), and therefore its vertical shape is \par 
   independent of the pixel-value.\par 
 \par 
 o The code 32767 shall be used to imply "user-defined", rather than\par 
   16384. This avoids breaking up the reserved public GeoKey code space\par 
   into two discontiguous ranges, 0-16383 and 16385-32767.\par 
 \par 
 o If a GeoKey is coded "undefined", then it is exactly that; no\par 
   parameters should be provided (e.g. EllipsoidSemiMajorAxis, etc).\par 
   To provide parameters for a non-coded attribute, use "user-defined".\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20   \par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s252\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 1.2.4 Organizational changes\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
None.\par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s252\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 1.2.5 Changes in Requirements\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20  Changes to this preliminary revision:\par 
\par 
   o Support for new transformation matrix tag (34264) required.\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20   \par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s252\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 1.2.6 Agenda for Future Development\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 

Revision 1.0, which is the first true "Baseline" revision, is proposed to support well-documented, public, relatively simple Projected Coordinate Systems (PCS), including most commonly used and supported in the international public domains today, together 
with their underlying map-projection systems. Following the critiques of the 0.x Revision phase, the 1.0 Revision spec is hereby released in Sept '95. \par 
\par 
In the coming year, incremental 1.x augmentations to the "codes" list will be established, as well as discussions regarding the future "2.0" requirements.\par 
\par 
The Revision 2.0 phase is proposed to extend the capability of the GeoTIFF tagsets beyond PCS projections into more complex map projection geometries, including single-project, single-vendor, or proprietary cartographic solutions. \par 
\par 
TBD: Sounding Datums and related parameters for Digital Elevation Models (DEM's) and bathymetry -- Revision 2?\par 
\par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s253\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 1.3 Administration\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s252\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 1.3.1 Information and Support:\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 The most recent version of the GeoTIFF spec, EPSG/POSC tables, and source code is available via anonymous FTP at:\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20        ftp://mtritter.jpl.nasa.gov/pub/tiff/geotiff/\par 
and is mirrored at the USGS:\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
        ftp://ftpmcmc.cr.usgs.gov/release/geotiff/jpl_mirror/\par 
\par 
   There are several subdirectories called spec/ tables/ and code/.\par 
\par 
   The USGS also has an archive of prototype GeoTIFF images at:\par 
\par 
        ftp://ftpmcmc.cr.usgs.gov/release/geotiff/images/\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 Information and a hypertext version of the GeoTIFF spec is available via WWW at the following site:\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
        http://www-mipl.jpl.nasa.gov/cartlab/geotiff/geotiff.html\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 A mailing-list is currently active to discuss the on-going development of this standard. To subscribe to this list, send e-mail to:\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
       GeoTIFF-request@tazboy.jpl.nasa.gov\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 with no subject and the body of the message reading:\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
     subscribe geotiff  your-name-here\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 To post inquiries directly to the list, send email to:\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
       geotiff@tazboy.jpl.nasa.gov\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
\par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s252\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 1.3.2 Private Keys and Codes:\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 
As with TIFF, in GeoTIFF private "GeoKeys" and codes may be used, starting with 32768 and above. Unlike the TIFF spec, however, these private key-spaces will not be reserved, and are only to be used for private, internal purposes. \par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s252\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 1.3.3 Proposed Revisions to GeoTIFF\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 Should a feature arise which is not currently supported, it should be formally proposed for addition to the GeoTIFF spec, through the official mailing-list.\par 
\par 
The current maintainer of the GeoTIFF specification is Niles Ritter, though this may change at a later time. Projection codes are maintained through EPSG/POSC, and a mechanism for change/additions will be established through the GeoTIFF mailing list. 
\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +--------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s254\li180\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn\brdrb\brdrs \b\f20\fs36 2 Baseline GeoTIFF\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +--------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s253\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 2.1 Notation\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 
This spec follows the notation remarks of the TIFF 6.0 spec, regarding "is", "shall", "should", and "may"; the first two indicate mandatory requirements, "should" indicates a strong recommendation, while "may" indicates an option.\par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s253\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 2.2 GeoTIFF Design Considerations\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 Every effort has been made to adhere to the philosophy of TIFF data abstraction. The GeoTIFF tags conform to a hierarchical data structure of tags and keys, similar to the tags which have been implemented in t
he "basic" and "extended" TIFF tags already supported in TIFF Version 6 specification. The following are some points considered in the design of GeoTIFF:\par 
\par 

o Private binary structures, while permitted under the TIFF spec, are in general difficult to maintain, and are intrinsically platform- dependent. Whenever possible, information should be sorted into their intrinsic data-types, and placed into appropriatel
y named tags. Also, implementors of TIFF readers would be more willing to honor a new tag specification if it does not require parsing novel binary structures.\par 
\par 
o Any Tag value which is to be used as a "keyword" switch or modifier should be a SHORT type, rather than an ASCII string. This avoids common mistakes of mis-spelling a keyword, as well as facilitating an implementation in code using the "switch/
case" features of most languages. In general, scanning ASCII strings for keywords (CaseINSensitiVE?) is a hazardous (not to mention slower and more complex) operation.\par 
\par 
o True "Extensibility" strongly sugges
ts that the Tags defined have a sufficiently abstract definition so that the same tag and its values may be used and interpreted in different ways as more complex information spaces are developed. For example, the old SubFileType tag (255) had to be obsole
ted and replaced with a NewSubFileType tag, because images began appearing which could not fit into the narrowly defined classes for that Tag. Conversely, the YCbCrSubsampling Tag has taken on new meaning and importance as the JPEG compression standard for
 TIFF becomes finalized.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s253\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 2.3 GeoTIFF Software Requirements\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 
GeoTIFF requires support for all documented TIFF 6.0 tag data-types, and in particular requires the IEEE double-precision floating point "DOUBLE" type tag. Most of the parameters for georeferencing will not have sufficient accuracy with single-precision IE
EE, nor with RATIONAL format storage. The only other alternative for storing high-precision values would be to encode as ASCII, but this does not conform to TIFF recommendations for data encoding.\par 
\par 

It is worth emphasizing here that the TIFF spec indicates that TIFF-compliant readers shall honor the 'byte-order' indicator, meaning that 4-byte integers from files created on opposite order machines will be swapped in software, and that 8-byte DOUBLE's w
ill be 8-byte swapped.\par 
\par 
A GeoTIFF reader/writer, in addition to supporting the standard TIFF tag types, must also have an additional module which can parse the "Geokey" MetaTag information. A public-domain software pa
ckage for performing this function is now available; see the "References" in section 5 for the location.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s253\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 2.4 GeoTIFF File and "Key" Structure\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
This section describes the abstract file-format and "GeoKey" data storage mechanism used in GeoTIFF. Uses of this mechanism for implementing georeferencing and geocoding is detailed in section 2.6 and section 2.7 .\par 
\par 
A GeoTIFF file is a TIFF 6.0 file, and inherits the file structure as described in the corresponding portion of the
 TIFF spec. All GeoTIFF specific information is encoded in several additional reserved TIFF tags, and contains no private Image File Directories (IFD's), binary structures or other private information invisible to standard TIFF readers.\par 
 \par 

The number and type of parameters that would be required to describe most popular projection types would, if implemented as separate TIFF tags, likely require dozens or even hundred of tags, exhausting the limited resources of the TIFF tag-space. On the ot
her hand, a private IFD, while providing thousands of free tags, is limited in that its tag-values are invisible to non-savvy TIFF readers (which don't know that the IFD_OFFSET tag value points to a private IFD).\par 
\par 

To avoid these problems, a GeoTIFF file stores projection parameters in a set of "Keys" which are virtually identical in function to a "Tag", but has one more level of abstraction above TIFF. Effectively, it is a sort of "Meta-Tag". A Key works with format
ted tag-values of a TIFF file the way that a TIFF file deals with the raw bytes of a data file. Like a tag, a Key has an ID number ranging from 0 to 65535, but unlike TIFF tags, all key ID's are available for use in GeoTIFF parameter definitions.\par 
\par 
The Keys in GeoTIFF (also call "GeoKeys") are all referenced from the GeoKeyDirectoryTag, which defined as follows: \par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
GeoKeyDirectoryTag:\par 
      Tag = 34735 (87AF.H) \par 
      Type = SHORT (2-byte unsigned short)\par 
      N = variable, >= 4\par 
      Alias: ProjectionInfoTag, CoordSystemInfoTag\par 
      Owner: SPOT Image, Inc.\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
This tag may be used to store the GeoKey Directory, which defines and references the "GeoKeys", as described below. \par 
\par 
The tag is an array of unsigned SHORT values, which are primarily grouped into blocks of 4. The first 4 values are special, and contain GeoKey directory header information. The header values consist of the following information, in order:\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20   Header=\{KeyDirectoryVersion, KeyRevision, MinorRevision, NumberOfKeys\}\par 
\par 
  where \par 
\par 
     "KeyDirectoryVersion" indicates the current version of Key\par 
     implementation, and will only change if this Tag's Key \par 
     structure is changed. (Similar to the TIFFVersion (42)).\par 
     The current DirectoryVersion number is 1. This value will\par 
     most likely never change, and may be used to ensure that\par 
     this is a valid Key-implementation.\par 
   \par 
     "KeyRevision" indicates what revision of Key-Sets are used.\par 
\par 
     "MinorRevision" indicates what set of Key-codes are used. The\par 
     complete revision number is denoted <KeyRevision>.<MinorRevision>\par 
          \par 
     "NumberOfKeys" indicates how many Keys are defined by the rest\par 
     of this Tag.\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20      \par 
This header is immediately followed by a collection of <NumberOfKeys> KeyEntry sets, each of which is also 4-SHORTS long. Each KeyEntry is modeled on the "TIFFEntry" format of the TIFF directory header, and is of the form:\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20    KeyEntry = \{ KeyID, TIFFTagLocation, Count, Value_Offset \}\par 
\par 
   where \par 
\par 
     "KeyID" gives the key-ID value of the Key (identical in function\par 
     to TIFF tag ID, but completely independent of TIFF tag-space),\par 
     \par 
     "TIFFTagLocation" indicates which TIFF tag contains the value(s)\par 
      of the Key: if TIFFTagLocation is 0, then the value is SHORT,\par 
      and is contained in the "Value_Offset" entry. Otherwise, the type\par 
      (format) of the value is implied by the TIFF-Type of the tag\par 
      containing the value.\par 
  \par 
     "Count" indicates the number of values in this key.\par 
   \par 
      "Value_Offset" Value_Offset indicates the index-\par 
      offset *into* the TagArray indicated by TIFFTagLocation, if\par 
      it is nonzero. If TIFFTagLocation=0, then Value_Offset\par 
      contains the actual (SHORT) value of the Key, and\par 
      Count=1 is implied. Note that the offset is not a byte-offset,\par 
      but rather an index based on the natural data type of the\par 
      specified tag array.  \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
Following the KeyEntry definitions, the KeyDirectory tag may also contain additional values. For example, if a Key requires multiple SHORT values, they shall be placed at the end of this tag, and the KeyEntry will set TIFFTagLocation=GeoKe
yDirectoryTag, with the Value_Offset pointing to the location of the value(s).\par 
\par 
All key-values which are not of type SHORT are to be stored in one of the following two tags, based on their format:\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 GeoDoubleParamsTag:\par 
      Tag = 34736 (87BO.H) \par 
      Type = DOUBLE (IEEE Double precision)\par 
      N = variable\par 
      Owner: SPOT Image, Inc.\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
This tag is used to store all of the DOUBLE valued GeoKeys, referenced by the GeoKeyDirectoryTag. The meaning of any value of this double array is determined from the GeoKe
yDirectoryTag reference pointing to it. FLOAT values should first be converted to DOUBLE and stored here.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 GeoAsciiParamsTag:\par 
      Tag = 34737 (87B1.H)  \par 
      Type = ASCII\par 
      Owner: SPOT Image, Inc.\par 
      N = variable\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 

This tag is used to store all of the ASCII valued GeoKeys, referenced by the GeoKeyDirectoryTag. Since keys use offsets into tags, any special comments may be placed at the beginning of this tag. For the most part, the only keys that are ASCII valued are "
Citation" keys, giving documentation and references for obscure projections, datums, etc.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Note on ASCII Keys:\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 
Special handling is required for ASCII-valued keys. While it is true that TIFF 6.0 permits multiple NULL-delimited strings within a single ASCII tag, the secondary strings might not appear in the output of naive "tiffdump" programs. For this reason, the nu
ll delimiter of each ASCII Key value shall be converted to a "|" (pipe) character before being installed back into the ASCII holding tag, so that a dump of the tag will look like this.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20    AsciiTag="first_value|second_value|etc...last_value|"\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
A baseline GeoTIFF-reader must check for and convert the final "|" pipe character of a key back into a NULL before returning it to the client software. \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 GeoKey Sort Order:\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 In the TIFF spec it is required that TIFF tags be written out to the file in tag-ID sorted order. This is done to avoid forcing software to perform N-squared sort operations when reading and writing tags.\par 
\par 
To follow the TIFF philosophy, GeoTIFF-writers shall store the GeoKey entries in key-sorted order within the CoordSystemInfoTag.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Example:\par 
\par 
  GeoKeyDirectoryTag=(   1,     1, 2,     6,\par 
                      1024,     0, 1,     2,\par 
                      1026, 34737,12,     0,\par 
                      2048,     0, 1, 32767,\par 
                      2049, 34737,14,    12,\par 
                      2050,     0, 1,     6,\par 
                      2051, 34736, 1,     0 )\par 
  GeoDoubleParamsTag(34736)=(1.5)\par 
  GeoAsciiParamsTag(34737)=("Custom File|My Geographic|")\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
The first line indicates that this is a Version 1 GeoTIFF GeoKey directory, the keys are Rev. 1.2, and there are 6 Keys defined in this tag.\par 
The next line indicates that the first Key (ID=1024 = GTModelTypeGeoKey) has the value 2 (Geographic), explicitly placed i
n the entry list (since TIFFTagLocation=0). The next line indicates that the Key 1026 (the GTCitationGeoKey) is listed in the GeoAsciiParamsTag (34737) array, starting at offset 0 (the first in array), and running for 12 bytes and so has the value "Custom 
File" (the "|" is converted to a null delimiter at the end). Going further down the list, the Key 2051 (GeogLinearUnitSizeGeoKey) is located in the GeoDoubleParamsTag (34736), at offset 0 and has the value 1.5; the value of key 2049 (GeogCitationGeoKey) is
 "My Geographic".\par 
\par 

The TIFF layer handles all the problems of data structure, platform independence, format types, etc, by specifying byte-offsets, byte-order format and count, while the Key describes its key values at the TIFF level by specifying Tag number, array-index, an
d count. Since all TIFF information occurs in TIFF arrays of some sort, we have a robust method for storing anything in a Key that would occur in a Tag.\par 
\par 
With this Key-value approach, there are 65536 Keys which have all the flexibility of TIFF tag, with the added advantage that a TIFF dump will provide all the information that exists in the GeoTIFF implementation.\par 
\par 
This GeoKey mechanism will be used extensively in section 2.7, where the numerous parameters for defining Coordinate Systems and their underlying projections are defined.\par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s253\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 2.5 Coordinate Systems in GeoTIFF\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 Geotiff has been designed so that standard map coordinate system definitions can be readily stored in a single registered TIFF tag. It has 
also been designed to allow the description of coordinate system definitions which are non-standard, and for the description of transformations between coordinate systems, through the use of three or four additional TIFF tags.\par 
However, in order for the information to be correctly exchanged between various clients and providers of GeoTIFF, it is important to establish a common system for describing map projections.\par 
In the TIFF/GeoTIFF framework, there are essentially three different spaces upon which coordinate systems may be defined. The spaces are:\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20   1) The raster space (Image space) R, used to reference the pixel values\par 
     in an image,\par 
  2) The Device space D, and\par 
  3) The Model space, M, used to reference points on the earth.\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
In the sections that follow we shall discuss the relevance and use of each of these spaces, and their corresponding coordinate systems, from the standpoint of GeoTIFF.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s252\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 2.5.1 Device Space and GeoTIFF\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
In standard TIFF 6.0 there are tags which relate raster space R with device space D, such as monitor, scanner or printer. The list of such tags consists of the following:\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20     ResolutionUnit (296)\par 
    XResolution    (282)\par 
    YResolution    (283)\par 
    Orientation    (274)\par 
    XPosition      (286)\par 
    YPosition      (287)\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 
In Geotiff, provision is made to identify earth-referenced coordinate systems (model space M) and to relate M space with R space. This provision is independent of and can co-exist with the relationship between raster and device spa
ces. To emphasize the distinction, this spec shall not refer to "X" and "Y" raster coordinates, but rather to raster space "J" (row) and "I" (column) coordinate variables instead, as defined in section 2.5.2.2.\par 
\par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s252\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 2.5.2 Raster Coordinate Systems\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s251\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 2.5.2.1 Raster Data\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
Raster data consists of spatially coherent, digitally stored numerical data, collected from sensors, scanners, or in other ways numerically derived. The manner in which this
 storage is implemented in a TIFF file is described in the standard TIFF specification. \par 
\par 

Raster data values, as read in from a file, are organized by software into two dimensional arrays, the indices of the arrays being used as coordinates. There may also be additional indices for multispectral data, but these indices do not refer to spatial c
oordinates but spectral, and so of not of concern here.\par 
\par 
Many different types of raster data may be georeferenced, and there may be subtle ways in which the nature of
 the data itself influences how the coordinate system (Raster Space) is defined for raster data. For example, pixel data derived from imaging devices and sensors represent aggregate values collected over a small, finite, geographic area, and so it is natur
al to define coordinate systems in which the pixel value is thought of as filling an area. On the other hand, digital elevations models may consist of discrete "postings", which may best be considered as point measurements at the vertices of a grid, and no
t in the interior of a cell. \par 
\pard\plain \s251\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 2.5.2.2 Raster Space\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
The choice of origin for raster space is not entirely arbitrary, and depends upon the nature of the data collected. Raster space coordinates shall be referred to by their pixel types, i.e., as "PixelIsArea" or "PixelIsPoint".\par 
\par 
Note: For simplicity, both raster spaces documented below use a fixed pixel size and spacing of 1. Information regarding the visual representation of this data, such as pixels with non-unit aspect ratios, scales, orientations, etc, are
 best communicated with the TIFF 6.0 standard tags.\par 
\par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 "PixelIsArea" Raster Space\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 

The "PixelIsArea" raster grid space R, which is the default, uses coordinates I and J, with (0,0) denoting the upper-left corner of the image, and increasing I to the right, increasing J down. The first pixel-value fills the square grid cell with the bound
s:\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20    top-left = (0,0), bottom-right = (1,1)\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
and so on; by extension this one-by-one grid cell is also referred to as a pixel. An N by M pixel image covers an are with the mathematically defined bounds (0,0),(N,M).\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20      (0,0)\par 
      +---+---+-> I\par 
      | * | * |\par 
      +---+---+        Standard (PixelIsArea) TIFF Raster space R,\par 
      | (1,1)  (2,1)      showing the areas (*) of several pixels.\par 
      |\par 
      J\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20       \par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 "PixelIsPoint" Raster Space\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
The PixelIsPoint raster grid space R uses the same coordinate axis names as used in PixelIsArea Raster space, with increasing I to the right, increasing J down. T
he first pixel-value however, is realized as a point value located at (0,0). An N by M pixel image consists of points which fill the mathematically defined bounds (0,0),(N-1,M-1).\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20      (0,0)   (1,0)\par 
      *-------*------> I\par 
      |       |\par 
      |       |       PixelIsPoint TIFF Raster space R,\par 
      *-------*         showing the location (*) of several pixels.\par 
      |     (1,1)\par 
      J\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
If a point-pixel image were to be displayed on a display device with pixel cells having the same size as the raster spacing, then the upper-left corner of the displayed image would be located in raster space at (-0.5, -0.5). \par 
\par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s252\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 2.5.3 Model Coordinate Systems\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
The following methods of describing spatial model locations (as opposed to raster) are recognized in Geotiff: \par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \tab Geographic coordinates\par 
\tab Geocentric coordinates\par 
\tab Projected coordinates\par 
\tab Vertical coordinates\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 
Geographic, geocentric and projected coordinates are all imposed on models of the earth. To describe a location uniquely, a coordinate set must be referenced to an adequately defined coordinate system. If a coordinate system is from the Geotiff standard de
finitions, the only reference required is the standard coordinate system code/name. If the coordinate system is non-standard, it must be defined. The required definitions are described below.\par 
\par 
Projected coordinates, local grid coordinates, and (usually) ge
ographical coordinates, form two dimensional horizontal coordinate systems (i.e., horizontal with respect to the earth's surface). Height is not part of these systems. To describe a position in three dimensions it is necessary to consider height as a secon
d one dimensional vertical coordinate system.\par 
\par 
To georeference an image in GeoTIFF, you must specify a Raster Space coordinate system, choose a horizontal model coordinate system, and a transformation between these two, as will be described in section 2.6\par 
\par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s251\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 2.5.3.1 Geographic Coordinate Systems\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 

Geographic Coordinate Systems are those that relate angular latitude and longitude (and optionally geodetic height) to an actual point on the earth. The process by which this is accomplished is rather complex, and so we describe the components of the proce
ss in detail here.\par 
\par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 Ellipsoidal Models of the Earth\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
The geoid - the earth stripped of all topography - forms a reference surface for the eart
h. However, because it is related to the earth's gravity field, the geoid is a very complex surface; indeed, at a detailed level its description is not well known. The geoid is therefore not used in practical mapping.\par 
\par 

It has been found that an oblate ellipsoid (an ellipse rotated about its minor axis) is a good approximation to the geoid and therefore a good model of the earth. Many approximations exist: several hundred ellipsoids have been defined for scientific purpos
es and about 30 are in day to day use for mapping. The size and shape of these ellipsoids can be defined through two parameters. Geotiff requires one of these to be\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20           the semi-major axis (a), \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 and the second to be either \par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20           the inverse flattening (1/f) \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 or \par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20           the semi-minor axis (b).\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 
Historical models exist which use a spherical approximation; such models are not recommended for modern applications, but if needed the size of a model sphere may be defined by specifying identical values for the semimajor and semiminor a
xes; the inverse flattening cannot be used as it becomes infinite for perfect spheres.\par 

Other ellipsoid parameters needed for mapping applications, for example the square of the eccentricity, can easily be calculated by an application from the two defining parameters. Note that Geotiff uses the modern geodesy convention for the symbol (b) for
 the semi-minor axis. No provision is made for mapping other planets in which a tri-dimensional (triaxial) ellipsoid might be required, where (b) would represent the semi-median axis and (c) the semi-minor axis.\par 
\par 
Numeric codes for ellipsoids regularly used for earth-mapping are included in the Geotiff reference lists.\par 
\par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 Latitude and Longitude\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
The coordinate axes of the system referencing points on an ellipsoid are called latitude and longitude. More precisely, {\b geodetic}
 latitude and longitude are required in this Geotiff standard. A discussion of the several other types of latitude and longitude is beyond the scope of this document as they are not required for conventional mapping. \par 
\par 
Latitude is defined to be the angle subtended with the ellipsoid's equatorial plane by a perpendicular through the surface of the ellipsoid from a point. Latitude is positive if north of the equator, negative if south. \par 
\par 
Longitude is defined to be the angle measured about the minor (polar) axis of the ellipsoid from a prime meridian (see below) to the meridian through a point, positive if east of the prime meridian and negative if west. Unlike latitude which
 has a natural origin at the equator, there is no feature on the ellipsoid which forms a natural origin for the measurement of longitude. The zero longitude can be any defined meridian. Historically, nations have used the meridian through their national as
tronomical observatories, giving rise to several prime meridians. By international convention, the meridian through Greenwich, England is the standard prime meridian. Longitude is only unambiguous if the longitude of its prime meridian relative to Greenwic
h is given. Prime meridians other than Greenwich which are sometimes used for earth mapping are included in the Geotiff reference lists.\par 
\par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 Geodetic Datums\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 

As well as there being several ellipsoids in use to model the earth, any one particular ellipsoid can have its location and orientation relative to the earth defined in different ways. If the relationship between the ellipsoid and the earth is changed, the
n the geographical coordinates of a point will change.\par 
\par 
Converse
ly, for geographical coordinates to uniquely describe a location the relationship between the earth and the ellipsoid must be defined.  This relationship is described by a geodetic datum. An exact geodetic definition of geodetic datums is beyond the curren
t scope of Geotiff. However the Geotiff standard requires that the geodetic datum being utilized be identified by numerical code. If required, defining parameters for the geodetic datum can be included as a citation.\par 
\par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 Defining Geographic Coordinate Systems\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 

In summary, geographic coordinates are only unique if qualified by the code of the geographic coordinate system to which they belong. A geographic coordinate system has two axes, latitude and longitude, which are only unambiguous when both of the related p
rime meridian and geodetic datum are given, and in turn the geodetic datum definition includes the definition of an ellipsoid. The Geotiff standard includes a list of frequently used geographic coordinate systems and 
their component ellipsoids, geodetic datums and prime meridians. Within the Geotiff standard a geographic coordinate system can be identified either by \par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20            the code of a standard geographic coordinate system\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 or by\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20             a user-defined system.\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
The user is expected to provide geographic coordinate system code/name, geodetic datum code/name, ellipsoid code (if in standard) or ellipsoid name and two defining parameters (a) and either (1/f) or (b), and prime meridian code (if in standard) or name 
and longitude relative to Greenwich.\par 
\par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s251\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 2.5.3.2 Geocentric Coordinate Systems\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 

A geocentric coordinate system is a 3-dimensional coordinate system with its origin at or near the center of the earth and with 3 orthogonal axes. The Z-axis is in or parallel to the earth's axis of rotation (or to the axis around which the rotational axis
 precesses). The X-axis is in or parallel to the plane of the equator and passes through its intersection with the Greenwich meridian, and the Y-axis is in the plane of the equator forming a right-handed coordinate system with the X and Z axes.\par 
\par 

Geocentric coordinate systems are not frequently used for describing locations, but they are often utilized as an intermediate step when transforming between geographic coordinate systems. (Coordinate system transformations are described in section 2.6 bel
ow).\par 
\par 
In the Geotiff standard, a geocentric coordinate system can be identified, either\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \tab through the geographic code (which in turn implies a datum),\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20  or\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \tab through a user-defined name.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s251\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 2.5.3.3 Projected Coordinate Systems\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 

Although a geographical coordinate system is mathematically two dimensional, it describes a three dimensional object and cannot be represented on a plane surface without distortion. Map projections are transformations of geographical coordinates to plane c
oordinates in which the characteristics of the distortions are controlled. A map projection consists of a coordinate system transformation method a
nd a set of defining parameters. A projected coordinate system (PCS) is a two dimensional (horizontal) coordinate set which, for a specific map projection, has a single and unambiguous transformation to a geographic coordinate system. \par 
\par 

In GeoTIFF PCS's are defined using the POSC/EPSG system, in which the PCS planar coordinate system, the Geographic coordinate system, and the transformation between them, are broken down into simpler logical components. Here are schematic formulas showing 
how the Projected Coordinate Systems and Geographic Coordinates Systems are encoded:\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
     Projected_CS  =  Geographic_CS + Projection\par 
     Geographic_CS =  Angular_Unit + Geodetic_Datum + Prime_Meridian\par 
     Projection    =  Linear Unit + Coord_Transf_Method + CT_Parameters \par 
     Coord_Transf_Method   = \{ TransverseMercator | LambertCC | ...\}\par 
     CT_Parameters = \{OriginLatitude + StandardParallel+...\}\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
(See also the Reference Parameters documentation in section 2.5.4). \par 
Notice that "Transverse Mercator" is not referred to a
s a "Projection", but rather as a "Coordinate Transformation Method"; in GeoTIFF, as in EPSG/POSC, the word "Projection" is reserved for particular, well-defined systems in which both the coordinate transformation method, its defining parameters, and their
 linear units are established. \par 
\par 
Several tens of coordinate transformation methods have been developed. Many are very similar and for practical purposes can be considered to give identical results. For example in the Geotiff standard Gauss-Kruger and Gauss
-Boaga projection types are considered to be of the type Transverse Mercator. Geotiff includes a listing of commonly used projection defining parameters.\par 
\par 
Different algorithms require different defining parameters. A future version of Geotiff will include formulas for specific map projection algorithms recommended for use with listed projection parameters.\par 
\par 
To limit the magnitude of distortions of projected coordinate systems, the boundaries of usage are sometimes restricted. To cover more extensive areas, 
two or more projected coordinate systems may be required. In some cases many of the defining parameters of a set of projected coordinate systems will be held constant. \par 
\par 

The Geotiff standard does not impose a strict hierarchy onto such zoned systems such as US State Plane or UTM, but considers each zone to be a discrete projected coordinate system; the ProjectedCSTypeGeoKey code value alone is sufficient to identify the st
andard coordinate systems. \par 
\par 
Within the Geotiff standard a projected coordinate system can be identified either by \par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20         the code of a standard projected coordinate system \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 or by\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20         a user-defined system. \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \line \par 
User-define projected coordinate systems may be defined by defining the Geographic Coordinate System, the coordinate transformation method and its associated parameters, as well as the planar system's linear units.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s251\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 2.5.3.4 Vertical Coordinate Systems\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
Many uses of Geotiff will be limited to a two-dimensional, horizontal, d
escription of location for which geographic coordinate systems and projected coordinate systems are adequate. If a three-dimensional description of location is required Geotiff allows this either through the use of a geocentric coordinate system or by defi
ning a vertical coordinate system and using this together with a geographic or projected coordinate system.\par 
\par 
In general usage, elevations and depths are referenced to a surface at or close to the geoid. Through increasing use of satellite positioning syste
ms the ellipsoid is increasingly being used as a vertical reference surface. The relationship between the geoid and an ellipsoid is in general not well known, but is required when coordinate system transformations are to be executed.\par 
\par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s252\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 2.5.4 Reference Parameters\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
Most of the numerical coding systems and coordinate system definitions are based on the hierarchical system developed by EPSG/POSC. The complete set of EPSG tables used in GeoTIFF is available at:\par 
\par 
  ftp://ftpmcmc.cr.usgs.gov/release/geotiff/jpl-mirror/tables\par 
or:\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20      ftp://mtritter.jpl.nasa.gov/pub/tiff/geotiff/tables\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
Appended below is the README.TXT file that accompanies the tables of defining parameters for those codes:\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
                    +-----------------------------------+\par 
                    |     EPSG Geodesy Parameters       |\par 
                    |    version 2.1, 2nd June 1995.    |\par 
                    +-----------------------------------+       \par 
                           \par 
 \par 
 The European Petroleum Survey Group (EPSG) has compiled and is\par 
 distributing this set of parameters defining various geodetic\par 
 and cartographic coordinate systems to encourage\par 
 standardisation across the Exploration and Production segment\par 
 of the oil industry.  The data is included as reference data\par 
 in the Geotiff data exchange specification, in Iris21 the\par 
 Petroconsultants data model, and in Epicentre, the POSC data\par 
 model.  Parameters map directly to the POSC Epicentre model\par 
 v2.0, except for data item codes which are included in the\par 
 files for data management purposes.  Geodetic datum parameters\par 
 are embedded within the geographic coordinate system file. \par 
 This has been done to ease parameter maintenance as there is a\par 
 high correlation between geodetic datum names and geographic\par 
 coordinate system names.  The Projected Coordinate System v2.0\par 
 tabulation consists of systems associated with locally used\par 
 projections.  Systems utilising the popular UTM grid system\par 
 have also been included.\par 
 \par 
 Criteria used for material in these lists include:\par 
   - information must be in the public domain: "private" data   \par 
     is not included.\par 
   - data must be in current use.\par 
   - parameters are given to a precision consistent with\par 
     coordinates being to a precision of one centimetre.\par 
 \par 
 The user assumes the entire risk as to the accuracy and the\par 
 use of this data.  The data may be copied and distributed\par 
 subject to the following conditions:\par 
 \par 
      1)   All data must then be copied without modification\par 
 and all pages must be included;\par 
           \par 
      2)   All components of this data set must be distributed\par 
 together;\par 
           \par 
      3)   The data may not be distributed for profit by any \par 
 third party; and\par 
 \par 
      4)   Acknowledgement to the original source must be\par 
 given.\par 
           \par 
 INFORMATION  PROVIDED IN THIS DOCUMENT IS PROVIDED "AS IS"\par 
 WITHOUT WARRANTY  OF  ANY  KIND,  EITHER  EXPRESSED OR \par 
 IMPLIED, INCLUDING  BUT  NOT LIMITED TO THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES\par 
 OF MERCHANTABILITY AND/OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.\par 
 \par 
 Data is distributed on MS-DOS formatted diskette in comma-\par 
 separated record format.  Additional copies may be obtained\par 
 from Jean-Patrick Girbig at the address below at a cost of\par 
 US$100 to cover media and shipping, payment to be made in\par 
 favour of Petroconsultants S.A at Union Banque Suisses,\par 
 1211 Geneve 11, Switzerland (compte number 403 458 60 K).\par 
 \par 
 The data is to be made available on a bulletin board shortly.\par 
 \par 
 \par 
 Shipping List\par 
 -------------\par 
 \par 
 This data set consists of 8 files:\par 
 \par 
 PROJCS.CSV  Tabulation of Projected Coordinate Systems to     \par 
             which map grid coordinates may be referenced.\par 
 \par 
 GEOGCS.CSV  Tabulation of Geographic Coordinate Systems to    \par 
             which latitude and longitude coordinates may be   \par 
             referenced.  This table includes the equivalent   \par 
             geocentric coordinate systems and also the        \par 
             geodetic datum, reference to which allows latitude\par 
             and longitude or geocentric XYZ to uniquely       \par 
             describe a location on the earth.\par 
 \par 
 VERTCS.CSV  Tabulation of Vertical Coordinate Systems to     \par 
             which heights or depths may be referenced. This\par 
             table is currently in an early form.\par 
 \par 
 PROJ.CSV    Tabulation of transformation methods and          \par 
             parameters through which Projected Coordinate     \par 
             Systems are defined and related to Geographic     \par 
             Coordinate Systems.\par 
 \par 
 ELLIPS.CSV  Tabulation of reference ellipsoids upon which     \par 
             geodetic datums are based.\par 
 \par 
 PMERID.CSV  Tabulation of prime meridians upon which geodetic \par 
             datums are based.\par 
 \par 
 UNITS.CSV   Tabulation of length units used in Projected and  \par 
             Vertical Coordinate Systems and angle units used  \par 
             in Geographic Coordinate Systems.\par 
 \par 
 README.TXT  This file.\par 
 \par 
 \par 
 \par 
 \par 
\par 
 \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s253\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 2.6 Coordinate Transformations\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 The purpose of Geotiff is to allow the definitive identi
fication of georeferenced locations within a raster dataset. This is generally accomplished through tying raster space coordinates to a model space coordinate system, when no further information is required. In the GeoTIFF nomenclature, "georeferencing" re
fers to tying raster space to a model space M, while "geocoding" refers to defining how the model space M assigns coordinates to points on the earth.\par 
The three tags defined below may be used for defining the relationship between R and M, and the relationship may be diagrammed as:\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20            ModelPixelScaleTag \par 
           ModelTiepointTag         \par 
    R  ------------ OR --------------> M\par 
  (I,J,K)  ModelTransformationTag   (X,Y,Z) \par 
                  \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
The next section describes these Baseline georeferencing tags in detail.\par 
\par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s252\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 2.6.1 GeoTIFF Tags for Coordinate Transformations\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 For most common applications, the transformation between raster and model space may be defined with a set of raster-to-model tiepoints and scaling parameters. The following two tags may be used for this purpose:
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 ModelTiepointTag:\par 
      Tag = 33922 (8482.H) \par 
      Type = DOUBLE (IEEE Double precision)\par 
      N = 6*K,  K = number of tiepoints\par 
      Alias: GeoreferenceTag\par 
      Owner: Intergraph\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
This tag stores raster->model tiepoint pairs in the order \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20         ModelTiepointTag = (...,I,J,K, X,Y,Z...),\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
where (I,J,K) is the point at location (I,J) in raster space with pixel-value K, and (X,Y,Z) is a vector in model space. In most cases the model space is o
nly two-dimensional, in which case both K and Z should be set to zero; this third dimension is provided in anticipation of future support for 3D digital elevation models and vertical coordinate systems. \par 
\par 

A raster image may be georeferenced simply by specifying its location, size and orientation in the model coordinate space M. This may be done by specifying the location of three of the four bounding corner points. However, tiepoints are only to be consider
ed exact at the points specified; thus defining such a set of bounding tiepoints does {\b not} imply that the model space locations of the interior of the image may be exactly computed by a linear interpolation of these tiepoints.\par 
\par 

However, since the relationship between the Raster space and the model space will often be an exact, affine transformation, this relationship can be defined using one set of tiepoints and the "ModelPixelScaleTag", described below, which gives the vertical 
and horizontal raster grid cell size, specified in model units. \par 
\par 
If possible, t
he first tiepoint placed in this tag shall be the one establishing the location of the point (0,0) in raster space. However, if this is not possible (for example, if (0,0) is goes to a part of model space in which the projection is ill-defined), then there
 is no particular order in which the tiepoints need be listed.\par 
\par 
For orthorectification or mosaicking applications a large number of tiepoints may be specified on a mesh over the raster image. However, the definition of associated grid interpolation methods is not in the scope of the current GeoTIFF spec.\par 
\par 
Remark: As mentioned in section 2.5.1, all GeoTIFF information is independent of the XPosition, YPosition, and Orientation tags of the standard TIFF 6.0 spec.\par 
\par 
The next two tags are optional tags provided for defining exact affine transformations between raster and model space; baseline GeoTIFF files may use either, but shall never use both within the same TIFF image directory.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
ModelPixelScaleTag:\par 
      Tag = 33550\par 
      Type = DOUBLE (IEEE Double precision)\par 
      N = 3\par 
      Owner: SoftDesk\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
This tag may be used to specify the size of raster pixel spacing in the model space units, when the raster space can be embedded in the model space coordinate system without rotation, and consists of the following 3 values:\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20     ModelPixelScaleTag = (ScaleX, ScaleY, ScaleZ)\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20     \par 
where ScaleX and ScaleY give the horizontal and vertical spacing of raster pixels. The ScaleZ is primarily used to map the pixel value of a digital elevation model into the correct Z-scale, and 
so for most other purposes this value should be zero (since most model spaces are 2-D, with Z=0).\par 
\par 

A single tiepoint in the ModelTiepointTag, together with this tag, completely determine the relationship between raster and model space; thus they comprise the two tags which Baseline GeoTIFF files most often will use to place a raster image into a "standa
rd position" in model space.\par 
\par 
Like the Tiepoint tag, t
his tag information is independent of the XPosition, YPosition, Resolution and Orientation tags of the standard TIFF 6.0 spec. However, simple reversals of orientation between raster and model space (e.g. horizontal or vertical flips) may be indicated by r
eversal of sign in the corresponding component of the ModelPixelScaleTag. GeoTIFF compliant readers must honor this sign-reversal convention.\par 
\par 
This tag must not be used if the raster image requires rotation or shearing to place it into the standard model space. In such cases the transformation shall be defined with the more general ModelTransformationTag, defined below. \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 ModelTransformationTag\par 
      Tag  =  34264  (85D8.H) \par 
      Type =  DOUBLE    \par 
      N    =  16\par 
      Owner: JPL Cartographic Applications Group\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
This tag may be used to specify the transformation matrix between the raster space (and its dependent pixel-value space) and the (possibly 3D) model space. If specified, the tag shall have the following organization:\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20       ModelTransformationTag = (a,b,c,d,e....m,n,o,p).\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
where\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
        model                              image\par 
        coords =          matrix     *     coords\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20         \par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20         |-   -|     |-                 -|  |-   -|\par 
        |  X  |     |   a   b   c   d   |  |  I  |\par 
        |     |     |                   |  |     |\par 
        |  Y  |     |   e   f   g   h   |  |  J  |\par 
        |     |  =  |                   |  |     |\par 
        |  Z  |     |   i   j   k   l   |  |  K  |\par 
        |     |     |                   |  |     |\par 
        |  1  |     |   m   n   o   p   |  |  1  |\par 
        |-   -|     |-                 -|  |-   -|\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
\par 
By convention, and without loss of generality, the following parameters are currently hard-coded and will always be the same (but must be specified nonetheless):\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20        m = n = o = 0,  p = 1.\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
For Baseline GeoTIFF, the model space is always 2-D, and so the matrix will have the more limited form:\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20         |-   -|     |-                 -|  |-   -|\par 
        |  X  |     |   a   b   0   d   |  |  I  |\par 
        |     |     |                   |  |     |\par 
        |  Y  |     |   e   f   0   h   |  |  J  |\par 
        |     |  =  |                   |  |     |\par 
        |  Z  |     |   0   0   0   0   |  |  K  |\par 
        |     |     |                   |  |     |\par 
        |  1  |     |   0   0   0   1   |  |  1  |\par 
        |-   -|     |-                 -|  |-   -|\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
 \par 
Values "d" and "h" will often be used to represent translations in  X and Y, and so will not necessarily be zero. All 16 values should be specified, in all cases. Only the 
raster-to-model transformation is defined; if the inverse transformation is required it must be computed by the client, to the desired accuracy.\par 
\par 

This matrix tag should not be used if the ModelTiepointTag and the ModelPixelScaleTag are already defined. If only a single tiepoint (I,J,K,X,Y,Z) is specified, and the ModelPixelScale = (Sx, Sy, Sz) is specified, then the corresponding transformation matr
ix may be computed from them as:\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20         |-                         -| \par 
        |   Sx    0.0   0.0   Tx    | \par 
        |                           |      Tx = X - I/Sx\par 
        |   0.0  -Sy    0.0   Ty    |      Ty = Y + J/Sy\par 
        |                           |      Tz = Z - K/Sz  (if not 0)\par 
        |   0.0   0.0   Sz    Tz    | \par 
        |                           | \par 
        |   0.0   0.0   0.0   1.0   | \par 
        |-                         -| \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
where the -Sy is due the reversal of direction from J increasing- down in raster space to Y increasing-up in model space.\par 
Like the Tiepoint tag, this tag information is independent of the XPosition, YPosition, and Orientation tags of the standard TIFF 6.0 spec.\par 
\par 
Note: In Revision 0.2 and earlier, another tag was used for this matrix, which has been renamed as follows:\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 IntergraphMatrixTag\par 
      Tag  =  33920  (8480.H) \par 
      Type =  DOUBLE    \par 
      N    =  17 (Intergraph implementation) or 16 (GeoTIFF 0.2 impl.)\par 
      Owner: Intergraph\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
This tag conflicts with an internal software implementation at Intergraph, and so its use is no longer encouraged. A GeoTIFF reader should 
look first for the new tag, and only if it is not found should it check for this older tag. If found, it should only consider it to be contain valid GeoTIFF matrix information if the tag-count is 16; the Intergraph version uses 17 values.\par 
\par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s252\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 2.6.2 Coordinate Transformation Data Flow\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 
The dataflow of the various GeoTIFF parameter datasets is based upon the EPSG/POSC configuration. Here is the text of the description accompanying the EPSG parameter tables:\par 
\par 
The data files (.CSV) have a hierarchical structure:\par 
 \par 
 +---------------------------+   +----------------------------+\par 
 |           VERTCS          |   |           PROJCS           |\par 
 +---------------------------+   +----------------------------+\par 
 |Vertical Coordinate Systems|   |Projected Coordinate Systems|\par 
 +-------------+-------------+   +------------+---------------+\par 
               |                              |\par 
      +--------+                              |\par 
      |                                       |\par 
      |            +--------------------------+\par 
      |            |                          |\par 
      |            |            +-------------+---------------+\par 
      |            |            |            GEOGCS           |\par 
      |            |            +-----------------------------+\par 
      |            |            |Geographic Coordinate Systems|\par 
      |            |            |Geocentric Coordinate Systems|\par 
      |            |            +-----------------------------+\par 
      |            |            |       Geodetic Datums       |\par 
      |            |            +-------------+---------------+\par 
      |            |                          |\par 
      |            |                 +--------+-------+\par 
      |            |                 |                |    \par 
      |     +------+-----+    +------+-----+   +------+-------+\par 
      |     |    PROJ    |    |   ELLIPS   |   |    PMERID    |\par 
      |     +------------+    +------------+   +--------------+\par 
      |     | Projection |    | Ellipsoid  |   |Prime Meridian|\par 
      |     | Parameters |    | Parameters |   |  Parameters  |\par 
      |     +------+-----+    +------+-----+   +------+-------+\par 
      |            |                 |                |\par 
      +------------+-----------+-----+----------------+         \par 
                               |                          \par 
                 +-------------+------------+\par 
                 |           UNITS          |\par 
                 +--------------------------+\par 
                 | Linear and Angular Units |\par 
                 +--------------------------+\par 
 \par 
 \par 
 The parameter listings are "living documents" and will be\par 
 updated by the EPSG from time to time. Any comment or\par 
 suggestions for improvements should be directed to:\par 
 \par 
   Jean-Patrick Girbig,      or   Roger Lott,\par 
   Manager Cartography,           Head of Survey,\par 
   Petroconsultants S.A.,         BP Exploration,\par 
   PO Box 152,                    Uxbridge One,\par 
   24 Chemin de la Marie,         Harefield Road,\par 
   1258 Perly-Geneva,             Uxbridge,\par 
   Switzerland.                   Middlesex UB8 1PD,\par 
                                  England.\par 
                                 \par 
                                  Internet:\par 
                                   lottrj@txpcap.hou.xwh.bp.com\par 
 \par 
 Requests for the inclusion of new data should include supporting \par 
 documentation.  Requests for changing existing data should include \par 
 reference to both the name and code of the item.\par 
 \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20  \par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s252\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 2.6.3 Cookbook for Defining Transformations\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
Here is a 4-step guide to producing a set of Baseline GeoTIFF tags for defining coordinate transformation information of a raster dataset. \par 
  \par 
  Step 1: Establish the Raster Space coordinate system used: \par 
          RasterPixelIsArea or RasterPixelIsPoint.\par 
  \par 
  Step 2: Establish/define the model space Type in which the image is\par 
          to be georeferenced. Usually this will be a Projected \par 
          Coordinate system (PCS). If you are geocoding this data\par 
          set, then the model space is defined to be the corresponding\par 
          geographic, geocentric or Projected coordinate system (skip \par 
          to the "Cookbook" section 2.7.3 first to do determine this).\par 
          \par 
  Step 3: Identify the nature of the transformations needed to tie\par 
          the raster data down to the model space coordinate system:\par 
          \par 
     Case 1: The model-location of a raster point (x,y) is known, but not\par 
          the scale or orientations:\par 
     \par 
            Use the ModelTiepointTag to define the (X,Y,Z) coordinates\par 
            of the known raster point.\par 
     \par 
     \par 
     Case 2: The location of three non-collinear raster points are known\par 
          exactly, but the linearity of the transformation is not known.\par 
         \par 
          Use the ModelTiepointTag to define the (X,Y,Z) coordinates\par 
          of all three known raster points. Do not compute or define the \par 
          ModelPixelScale or ModelTransformation tag.\par 
         \par 
     Case 3: The position and scale of the data is known exactly, and\par 
          no rotation or shearing is needed to fit into the model space.\par 
          \par 
          Use the ModelTiepointTag to define the (X,Y,Z) coordinates\par 
          of the known raster point, and the ModelPixelScaleTag to\par 
          specify the scale.\par 
          \par 
     Case 4: The raster data requires rotation and/or lateral shearing to\par 
          fit into the defined model space:\par 
          \par 
          Use the ModelTransformation matrix to define the transformation.\par 
          \par 
     Case 5: The raster data cannot be fit into the model space with a\par 
          simple affine transformation (rubber-sheeting required).\par 
          \par 
          Use only the ModelTiepoint tag, and specify as many\par 
          tiepoints as your application requires. Note, however, that\par 
          this is not a Baseline GeoTIFF implementation, and should\par 
          not be used for interchange; it is recommended that the image be\par 
          geometrically rectified first, and put into a standard projected\par 
          coordinate system.\par 
\par 
   Step 4: Install the defined tag values in the TIFF file and close it.\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s253\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 2.7 Geocoding Raster Data\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s252\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 2.7.1 General Approach\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 
A geocoded image is a georeferenced image as described in section 2.6, which also specifies a model space coordinate system (CS) between the model space M (to which the raster space has been tied) and the earth. The relationship can be diagrammed, includin
g the associated TIFF tags, as follows:\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20         ModelPixelScaleTag \par 
        ModelTiepointTag                  GeoKeyDirectoryTag CS \par 
    R  -------- OR ---------------> M  --------- AND  -----------> Earth\par 
        ModelTransformationTag            GeoDoubleParamsTag  \par 
                                          GeoAsciiParamsTag  \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
The geocoding coordinate system is defined by the GeoKeyDirectoryTag, while the Georeferencing information (T) is defined by the ModelTiepointTag and the ModelPixelScale, or ModelTransformationTag. Since these two systems are independent o
f each other, the tags used to store the parameters are separated from each other in the GeoTIFF file to emphasize the orthogonality. \par 
\par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s252\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 2.7.2 GeoTIFF GeoKeys for Geocoding\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 
As mentioned above, all information regarding the Model Coordinate System used in the raster data is referenced from the GeoKeyDirectoryTag, which stores all of the GeoKey entries. In the Appendix, section 6.2 summarizes all of the GeoKeys defined for base
line GeoTIFF, and their corresponding codes are documented in section 6.3. Only the Keys themselves are documented here.\par 
\par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s251\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 Common Features\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +----------------------------------+\par 
     \par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 Public and Private Key and Code Ranges\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 

GeoTIFF GeoKey ID's may take any value between 0 and 65535. Following TIFF general approach, the GeoKey ID's from 32768 and above are available for private implementations. However, no registry will be established for these keys or codes, so developers are
 warned to use them at their own risk.\par 
\par 
The Key ID's from 0 to 32767 are reserved for use by the official GeoTIFF spec, and are broken down into the following sub-domains:\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20    [    0,  1023]       Reserved\par 
   [ 1024,  2047]       GeoTIFF Configuration Keys\par 
   [ 2048,  3071]       Geographic/Geocentric CS Parameter Keys\par 
   [ 3072,  4095]       Projected CS Parameter Keys\par 
   [ 4096,  5119]       Vertical CS Parameter Keys\par 
   [ 5120, 32767]       Reserved\par 
   [32768, 65535]       Private use\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
GeoKey codes, like keys and tags, also range from 0 to 65535. F
ollowing the TIFF approach, all codes from 32768 and above are available for private user implementation. There will be no registry for these codes, however, and so developers must be sure that these tags will only be used internally. Use private codes at 
your own risk.\par 
\par 
The codes from 0 to 32767 for all public GeoKeys are reserved by this GeoTIFF specification.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 Common Public Code Values\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
For consistency, several key codes have the same meaning in all implemented GeoKeys possessing a SHORT numerical coding system:\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20           0 = undefined\par 
      32767 = user-defined\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 

The "undefined" code means that this parameter is intentionally omitted, for whatever reason. For example, the datum used for a given map may be unknown, or the accuracy of a aerial photo is so low that to specify a particular datum would imply a higher ac
curacy than is in the data.\par 
\par 
The "user-defined" code means that a feature is not among the standard list, and is being explicitly defined. In cases where this is meaningful, Geokey parameters have been supplied for the user to define this feature.\par 
\par 

"User-Defined" requirements: In each section below a specification of the additional GeoKeys required for the "user-defined" option is given. In all cases the corresponding "Citation" key is strongly recommended, as per the FGDC Metadata standard regarding
 "local" types.\par 
\par 
\par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s251\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 GeoTIFF Configuration GeoKeys\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +----------------------------------+\par 
\par 
These keys are to be used to establish the general configuration of this file's coordinate system, including the types of raster coordinate systems, model coordinate systems, and citations if any.\par 
\par 
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 GTModelTypeGeoKey      \par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 1024\par 
Type: SHORT (code)\par 
Values: Section 6.3.1.1 Codes\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
This GeoKey defines the general type of model Coordinate system used, and to which the raster space will be transformed:unknown, Geocentric (rarely used), Geographic, Projected Coordinate System, or user-defined. If the coordinate s
ystem is a PCS, then only the PCS code need be specified. If the coordinate system does not fit into one of the standard registered PCS'S, but it uses one of the standard projections and datums, then its should be documented as a PCS model with "user-defin
ed" type, requiring the specification of projection parameters, etc. \par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
GeoKey requirements for User-Defined Model Type (not advisable):\par 
\par 
     GTCitationGeoKey\par 
     \par 
\par 
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 GTRasterTypeGeoKey       \par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 1025  \par 
Type = Section 6.3.1.2 codes\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 
This establishes the Raster Space coordinate system used; there are currently only two, namely RasterPixelIsPoint and RasterPixelIsArea. No user-defined raster spaces are currently supported. For variance in imaging display parameters, such as pixel aspect
-ratios, use the standard TIFF 6.0 device-space tags instead.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 GTCitationGeoKey       \par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 1026  \par 
Type = ASCII\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 As with all the "Citation" GeoKeys, this is provided to give an ASCII reference to published documentation on the overall configuration of this GeoTIFF file.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s251\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 Geographic CS Parameter GeoKeys\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 +---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 In general, the geographic coordinate system used will be implied by the projected coordinate system c
ode. If however, this is a user-defined PCS, or the ModelType was chosen to be Geographic, then the system must be explicitly defined here, using the Horizontal datum code.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 GeographicTypeGeoKey    \par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 2048  \par 
Type = SHORT (code)\par 
Values = Section 6.3.2.1 Codes    \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 This key may be used to specify the code for the geographic coordinate system used to map lat-long to a specific ellipsoid over the earth.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
GeoKey Requirements for User-Defined geographic CS:\par 
 \par 
       GeogCitationGeoKey\par 
       GeogGeodeticDatumGeoKey\par 
 \tab GeogAngularUnitsGeoKey (if not degrees)\par 
\tab GeogPrimeMeridianGeoKey (if not Greenwich)\par 
\par 
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 GeogCitationGeoKey\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 2049\par 
Type = ASCII\par 
Values = text\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 General citation and reference for all Geographic CS parameters.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 +---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 GeogGeodeticDatumGeoKey    \par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 2050  \par 
Type = SHORT (code)\par 
Values = Section 6.3.2.2 Codes    \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 This key may be used to specify the horizontal datum, defining the size, position and orientation of the reference ellipsoid used in user-defined geographic coordinate systems.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
GeoKey Requirements for User-Defined Horizontal Datum: \par 
       GeogCitationGeoKey\par 
       GeogEllipsoidGeoKey\par 
\par 
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 GeogPrimeMeridianGeoKey\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 2051\par 
Type = SHORT (code)\par 
Units: Section 6.3.2.4 code\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 Allows specification of the location of the Prime meridian for user-defined geographic coordinate systems. The default standard is Greenwich, England.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 +---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 GeogPrimeMeridianLongGeoKey\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 2061  \par 
Type = DOUBLE \par 
Units =  GeogAngularUnits\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 This key allows definition of user-defined Prime Meridians, the location of which is defined by its longitude relative to Greenwich.\par 
\par 
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 GeogLinearUnitsGeoKey \par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 2052\par 
Type = DOUBLE\par 
Values: Section 6.3.1.3 Codes\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 Allows the definition of geocentric CS linear units for user-defined GCS.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 GeogLinearUnitSizeGeoKey \par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 2053\par 
Type = DOUBLE\par 
Units: meters\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 Allows the definition of user-defined linear geocentric units, as measured in meters.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 +---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 GeogAngularUnitsGeoKey\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 2054  \par 
Type = SHORT (code)\par 
Values =  Section 6.3.1.4  Codes \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 Allows the definition of {\b geocentric} CS Linear units for user-defined GCS and for ellipsoids.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
GeoKey Requirements for "user-defined" units:\par 
    GeogCitationGeoKey\par 
    GeogAngularUnitSizeGeoKey \par 
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 GeogAngularUnitSizeGeoKey \par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 2055\par 
Type = DOUBLE\par 
Units: radians\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 Allows the definition of user-defined angular geographic units, as measured in radians.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 +---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 GeogEllipsoidGeoKey\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 2056\par 
Type = SHORT (code)\par 
Values = Section 6.3.2.3 Codes \par 
   \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 This key may be used to specify the coded ellipsoid used in the geodetic datum of the Geographic Coordinate System. \par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
GeoKey Requirements for User-Defined Ellipsoid: \par 
\par 
   GeogCitationGeoKey\par 
   [GeogSemiMajorAxisGeoKey, \par 
           [GeogSemiMinorAxisGeoKey | GeogInvFlatteningGeoKey] ]\par 
\par 
\par 
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 GeogSemiMajorAxisGeoKey  \par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 2057\par 
Type = DOUBLE\par 
Units: Geocentric CS Linear Units\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 Allows the specification of user-defined Ellipsoid Semi-Major Axis (a). \par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 GeogSemiMinorAxisGeoKey  \par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 2058\par 
Type = DOUBLE\par 
Units: Geocentric CS Linear Units\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 Allows the specification of user-defined Ellipsoid Semi-Minor Axis (b). \par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 GeogInvFlatteningGeoKey\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 2059\par 
Type = DOUBLE\par 
Units: none.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 Allows the specification of the {\b inverse} of user-defined Ellipsoid's flattening parameter (f). The eccentricity-squared e^2 of the ellipsoid is related to the non-inverted f by:\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
      e^2  = 2*f  - f^2\par 
 \par 
   Note: if the ellipsoid is spherical the inverse-flattening\par 
   becomes infinite; use the GeogSemiMinorAxisGeoKey instead, and\par 
   set it equal to the semi-major axis length.\par 
\par 
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 GeogAzimuthUnitsGeoKey\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 2060  \par 
Type = SHORT (code)\par 
Values =  Section 6.3.1.4 Codes \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 This k
ey may be used to specify the angular units of measurement used to defining azimuths, in geographic coordinate systems. These may be used for defining azimuthal parameters for some projection algorithms, and may not necessarily be the same angular units us
ed for lat-long.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 +---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s251\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 Projected CS Parameter GeoKeys\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +----------------------------------+\par 
\par 
The PCS range of GeoKeys includes the projection and coordinate transformation keys as well. The projection keys are included in this block since they can only be used to define projected coordinate systems.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 +---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 ProjectedCSTypeGeoKey   \par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 3072\par 
Type = SHORT (codes)\par 
Values: Section 6.3.3.1 codes\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
This code is provided to specify the projected coordinate system.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
GeoKey requirements for "user-defined" PCS families:\par 
   PCSCitationGeoKey\par 
   ProjectionGeoKey\par 
\par 
 +---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 PCSCitationGeoKey\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 3073\par 
Type = ASCII\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 As with all the "Citation" GeoKeys, this is provided to give an ASCII reference to published documentation on the Projected  Coordinate System particularly if this is a "user-defined" PCS.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s251\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 Projection Definition GeoKeys\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 +---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 
With the exception of the first two keys, these are mostly  projection-specific parameters, and only a few will be required for any particular projection type. Projected coordinate systems automatically imply a specific projection type, as well as specific
 parameters for that projection, and so the keys below will only be necessary for user-defined projected coordinate systems.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 +---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 ProjectionGeoKey\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 3074\par 
Type = SHORT (code)\par 
Values:  Section 6.3.3.2 codes\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 Allows specification of the coordinate transformation method and projection zone parameters.  Note : when associated with an appropriate Geographic Coordinate System, this forms a Projected Coordinate System.
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
GeoKeys Required for "user-defined" Projections:\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20    PCSCitationGeoKey\par 
   ProjCoordTransGeoKey\par 
   ProjLinearUnitsGeoKey\par 
   (additional parameters depending on ProjCoordTransGeoKey).\par 
\par 
\par 
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 ProjCoordTransGeoKey\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 3075\par 
Type = SHORT (code)\par 
Values:  Section 6.3.3.3 codes\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 
Allows specification of the coordinate transformation method used. Note: this does not include the definition of the corresponding Geographic Coordinate System to which the projected CS is related; only the transformation method is defined here.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
GeoKeys Required for "user-defined" Coordinate Transformations:\par 
\par 
   PCSCitationGeoKey\par 
   <additional parameter geokeys depending on the Coord. Trans. specified).\par 
\par 
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 ProjLinearUnitsGeoKey\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 3076 \par 
Type = SHORT (code)\par 
Values: Section 6.3.1.3 codes \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 Defines linear units used by this projection.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 +---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 ProjLinearUnitSizeGeoKey\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 3077 \par 
Type = DOUBLE\par 
Units: meters\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 Defines size of user-defined linear units in meters.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 +---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 ProjStdParallel1GeoKey\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 3078 \par 
Type = DOUBLE\par 
Units: GeogAngularUnit \par 
Alias: ProjStdParallelGeoKey (from Rev 0.2)\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 Latitude of primary Standard Parallel.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 +---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 ProjStdParallel2GeoKey\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 3079\par 
Type = DOUBLE\par 
Units: GeogAngularUnit \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 Latitude of second Standard Parallel.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 +---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 ProjNatOriginLongGeoKey\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 3080\par 
Type = DOUBLE\par 
Units: GeogAngularUnit \par 
Alias: ProjOriginLongGeoKey\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 Longitude of map-projection Natural origin. \par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 +---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 ProjNatOriginLatGeoKey\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 3081\par 
Type = DOUBLE\par 
Units: GeogAngularUnit\par 
Alias: ProjOriginLatGeoKey\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 Latitude of map-projection Natural origin.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 +---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 ProjFalseEastingGeoKey\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 3082\par 
Type = DOUBLE\par 
Units: ProjLinearUnit \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
Gives the easting coordinate of the map projection Natural origin.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 +---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 ProjFalseNorthingGeoKey\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 3083\par 
Type = DOUBLE\par 
Units: ProjLinearUnit \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
Gives the northing coordinate of the map projection Natural origin.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 +---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 ProjFalseOriginLongGeoKey\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 3084\par 
Type = DOUBLE\par 
Units: GeogAngularUnit \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
Gives the longitude of the False origin.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 +---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 ProjFalseOriginLatGeoKey\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 3085\par 
Type = DOUBLE\par 
Units: GeogAngularUnit \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
Gives the latitude of the False origin.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 +---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 ProjFalseOriginEastingGeoKey\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 3086\par 
Type = DOUBLE\par 
Units: ProjLinearUnit \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
Gives the easting coordinate of the false origin. This is NOT the False Easting, which is the easting attached to the Natural origin.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 +---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 ProjFalseOriginNorthingGeoKey\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 3087\par 
Type = DOUBLE\par 
Units: ProjLinearUnit \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
Gives the northing coordinate of the False origin. This is NOT the False Northing, which is the northing attached to the Natural origin.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 +---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 ProjCenterLongGeoKey\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 3088\par 
Type = DOUBLE\par 
Units: GeogAngularUnit \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 Longitude of Center of Projection. Note that this is not necessarily the origin of the projection.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 +---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 ProjCenterLatGeoKey\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 3089\par 
Type = DOUBLE\par 
Units: GeogAngularUnit\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 Latitude of Center of Projection. Note that this is not necessarily the origin of the projection.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 +---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 ProjCenterEastingGeoKey\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 3090\par 
Type = DOUBLE\par 
Units: ProjLinearUnit \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
Gives the easting coordinate of the center. This is NOT the False Easting.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 +---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 ProjFalseOriginNorthingGeoKey\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 3091\par 
Type = DOUBLE\par 
Units: ProjLinearUnit \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
Gives the northing coordinate of the center. This is NOT the False Northing.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 +---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 ProjScaleAtNatOriginGeoKey\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 3092\par 
Type = DOUBLE\par 
Units: none\par 
Alias: ProjScaleAtOriginGeoKey (Rev. 0.2)\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 Scale at Natural Origin. This is a ratio, so no units are required.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 +---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 ProjScaleAtCenterGeoKey\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 3093 \par 
Type = DOUBLE\par 
Units: none\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 Scale at Center. This is a ratio, so no units are required.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 +---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 ProjAzimuthAngleGeoKey\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 3094\par 
Type = DOUBLE\par 
Units: GeogAzimuthUnit\par 
 \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 
Azimuth angle east of true north of the central line passing through the projection center (for elliptical (Hotine) Oblique Mercator). Note that this is the standard method of measuring azimuth, but is opposite the usual mathematical convention of positive
 indicating counter-clockwise.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 +---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 ProjStraightVertPoleLongGeoKey   \par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 3095 \par 
Type = DOUBLE\par 
Units: GeogAngularUnit \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 Longitude at Straight Vertical Pole. For polar stereographic.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 +---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 GeogAzimuthUnitsGeoKey\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 2060  \par 
Type = SHORT (code)\par 
Values =  Section 6.3.1.4 Codes \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 This key is actually part of the "Geographic CS Parameter Keys" section, but is mentioned here as it is useful for defining units used in the azimuthal projection parameters.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s251\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 Vertical CS Parameter Keys\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +----------------------------------+\par 
\par 
Note: Vertical coordinate systems are not yet implemented. These sections are provided for future development, and any vertical coordinate systems in the current revision must be defined using the VerticalCitationGeoKey.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 +---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 VerticalCSTypeGeoKey\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 4096  \par 
Type = SHORT (code)\par 
Values =  Section 6.3.4.1  Codes \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 This key may be used to specify the vertical coordinate system.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 +---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 VerticalCitationGeoKey\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 4097\par 
Type = ASCII\par 
Values =  text \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 This key may be used to document the vertical coordinate system used, and its parameters.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 +---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 VerticalDatumGeoKey\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 4098   \par 
Type = SHORT (code)\par 
Values =  Section 6.3.4.2  codes\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 This key may be used to specify the vertical datum for the vertical coordinate system.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s250\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 VerticalUnitsGeoKey\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Key ID = 4099   \par 
Type = SHORT (code)\par 
Values =  Section 6.3.1.3  Codes \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 
This key may be used to specify the vertical units of measurement used in the geographic coordinate system, in cases where geographic CS's need to reference the vertical coordinate. This, together with the Citation key, comprise the only fully implemented 
keys in this section, at present.\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s252\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 2.7.3 Cookbook for Geocoding Data\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
Step 1: Determine the Coordinate system type of the raster data, based on\par 
        the nature of the data: pixels derived from scanners or other \par 
        optical devices represent areas, and most commonly will use the\par 
        RasterPixelIsArea coordinate system. Pixel data such as digital\par 
        elevation models represent points, and will probably use \par 
        RasterPixelIsPoint coordinates.\par 
\par 
           Store in: GTRasterTypeGeoKey\par 
\par 
Step 2: Determine which class of model space coordinates are most natural\par 
        for this dataset:Geographic, Geocentric, or Projected Coordinate \par 
        System. Usually this will be PCS.\par 
        \par 
           Store in: GTModelTypeGeoKey\par 
           \par 
Step 3: This step depends on the GTModelType:\par 
\par 
      case PCS:  Determine the PCS projection system. Most of the\par 
           PCS's used in standard State Plane and national grid systems\par 
           are defined, so check this list first; the EPSG index in \par 
           section 6.4 may be useful for this purpose.\par 
               \par 
           Store in: ProjectedCSTypeGeoKey, ProjectedCSTypeGeoKey\par 
\par 
           If coded, it will not be necessary to specify the Projection \par 
           datum, etc for this case, since all of those parameters\par 
           are determined by the ProjectedCSTypeGeoKey code. Skip to\par 
           step 4 from here.\par 
               \par 
           If none of the coded PCS's match your system, then this is a\par 
           user-defined PCS. Use the Projection code list to check for\par 
           standard projection systems.\par 
\par 
           Store in: ProjectionGeoKey and skip to Geographic CS case.\par 
\par 
           If none of the Projection codes match your system, then this\par 
           is a user-defined projection. Use the ProjCoordTransGeoKey to\par 
           specify the coordinate transformation method (e.g. Transverse\par 
           Mercator), and all of the associated parameters of that method.\par 
           Also define the linear units used in the planar coordinate\par 
           system.\par 
           \par 
           Store in: ProjCoordTransGeoKey, ProjLinearUnitsGeoKey  \par 
               <and other CT related parameter keys>\par 
\par 
           Now continue on to define the Geographic CS, below.\par 
\par 
      case GEOCENTRIC:\par 
      case GEOGRAPHIC:  Check the list of standard GCS's and use the\par 
           corresponding code. To use a code both the Datum, Prime\par 
           Meridian, and angular units must match those of the code.\par 
                \par 
           Store in:  GeographicTypeGeoKey and skip to Step 4.\par 
\par 
           If none of the coded GCS's match exactly, then this is a\par 
           user-defined GCS. Check the list of standard datums,\par 
           Prime Meridians, and angular units to define your system.\par 
\par 
           Store in: GeogGeodeticDatumGeoKey, GeogAngularUnitsGeoKey,\par 
              GeogPrimeMeridianGeoKey and skip to Step 4. \par 
  \par 
           If none of the datums match your system, you have a \par 
           user-defined datum, which is an odd system, indeed. Use \par 
           the GeogEllipsoidGeoKey to select the appropriate ellipsoid\par 
           or use the GeogSemiMajorAxisGeoKey, GeogInvFlatteningGeoKey to \par 
           define, and give a reference using the GeogCitationGeoKey.\par 
\par 
           Store in: GeogEllipsoidGeoKey, etc. and go to Step 4.\par 
\par 
        \par 
Step 4: Install the GeoKeys/codes into the GeoKeyDirectoryTag, and the\par 
      DOUBLE and ASCII key values into the corresponding value-tags.\par 
      \par 
Step 5: Having completely defined the Raster & Model coordinate system,\par 
      go to Cookbook section 2.6.2 and use the Georeferencing Tags\par 
      to tie the raster image down onto the Model space.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s254\li180\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn\brdrb\brdrs \b\f20\fs36 3  Examples\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +----------------------------------+\par 
\par 
Here are some examples of how GeoTIFF may be implemented at the  Tag and GeoKey level, following the general "Cookbook" approach above. \par 
\par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s253\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 3.1 Common Examples\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s252\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 3.1.1. UTM Projected Aerial Photo\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20    \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 We have an aerial photo which has been orthorectified and resampled to a UTM grid, zone 60, using WG
S84 datum; the coordinates of the upper-left corner of the image is are given in easting/northing, as 350807.4m, 5316081.3m. The scanned map pixel scale is 100 meters/pixels (the actual dpi scanning ratio is irrelevant).\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20    \par 
      ModelTiepointTag       = (0, 0, 0,  350807.4, 5316081.3, 0.0)\par 
      ModelPixelScaleTag      = (100.0, 100.0, 0.0)\par 
      GeoKeyDirectoryTag:\par 
            GTModelTypeGeoKey        =  1      (ModelTypeProjected)\par 
            GTRasterTypeGeoKey       =  1      (RasterPixelIsArea)\par 
            ProjectedCSTypeGeoKey    =  32660  (PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_60N)\par 
            PCSCitationGeoKey        =  "UTM Zone 60 N with WGS84"\par 
            \par 
   \par 
   Notes:\par 
\par 
   1) We did not need to specify the GCS lat-long, since the \par 
      PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_60N codes implies particular \par 
      GCS and units already (WGS_84 and meters). The citation\par 
      was added just for documentation.\par 
 \par 
   2)  The "GeoKeyDirectoryTag" is expressed using the "GeoKey" \par 
   structure defined above. At the TIFF level the tags look like\par 
   this:\par 
\par 
      GeoKeyDirectoryTag=(  1,     0,     2,       4,\par 
                         1024,     0,     1,       1,\par 
                         1025,     0,     1,       1,\par 
                         3072,     0,     1,       32660,\par 
                         3073, 34737,    25,       0 ) \par 
      GeoAsciiParamsTag(34737)=("UTM Zone 60 N with WGS84|")\par 
      \par 
   For the rest of these examples we will only show the GeoKey-level\par 
   dump, with the understanding that the actual TIFF-level tag\par 
   representation can be determined from the documentation.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s252\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 3.1.2. Standard State Plane\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20       \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 
We have a USGS State Plane Map of Texas, Central Zone, using NAD83, correctly oriented. The map resolution is 1000 meters/pixel, at origin. There is a grid intersection line in the image at pixel location (50,100), and corresponds to the projected coordina
te system easting/northing of (949465.0, 3070309.1).\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20       \par 
      ModelTiepointTag           = (  50,  100, 0, 949465.0, 3070309.1, 0)   \par 
      ModelPixelScaleTag         = (1000, 1000, 0)\par 
      GeoKeyDirectoryTag:\par 
            GTModelTypeGeoKey            =  1   (ModelTypeProjected)\par 
            GTRasterTypeGeoKey           =  1   (RasterPixelIsArea)\par 
            ProjectedCSTypeGeoKey        = 32139 (PCS_NAD83_Texas_Central)\par 
\par 
    Notice that in this case, since the PCS is a standard code, we\par 
    do not need to define the GCS, datum, etc, since those are implied\par 
    by the PCS code. Also, since this is NAD83, meters are used rather\par 
    than US Survey feet (as in NAD 27).\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
  \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s252\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 3.1.3. Lambert Conformal Conic Aeronautical Chart\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20       \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 
We have a 500 x 500 scanned aeronautical chart of Seattle, WA, using Lambert Conformal Conic projection, correctly oriented. The central meridian is at 120 degrees west. The map resolution is 1000 meters/pixel, at origin, and uses NAD27 datum. The standard
 parallels of the projection are at 41d20m N and 48d40m N. The latitude of the origin is at 45 degrees North, and occurs in the image at the raster coordinates (80,100). The origin is given a false easting and northing of 200000m, 1500000m.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20       \par 
      ModelTiepointTag          = (  80,  100, 0,  200000,  1500000,  0)   \par 
      ModelPixelScaleTag         = (1000, 1000, 0)\par 
      GeoKeyDirectoryTag:\par 
            GTModelTypeGeoKey               =  1     (ModelTypeProjected)\par 
            GTRasterTypeGeoKey              =  1     (RasterPixelIsArea)\par 
            GeographicTypeGeoKey            =  4267  (GCS_NAD27)\par 
            ProjectedCSTypeGeoKey           =  32767 (user-defined)\par 
            ProjectionGeoKey                =  32767 (user-defined)\par 
            ProjLinearUnitsGeoKey           =  9001     (Linear_Meter)\par 
            ProjCoordTransGeoKey            =  8  (CT_LambertConfConic_2SP)\par 
                 ProjStdParallel1GeoKey     =  41.333\par 
                 ProjStdParallel2GeoKey     =  48.666\par 
                 ProjCenterLongGeoKey       =-120.0\par 
                 ProjNatOriginLatGeoKey     =  45.0\par 
                 ProjFalseEastingGeoKey,    = 200000.0\par 
                 ProjFalseNorthingGeoKey,   = 1500000.0\par 
\par 
   Notice that the Tiepoint takes the false easting and northing into\par 
   account when tying the raster point (50,100) to the projection origin.\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20    \par 
\par 
+--------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s252\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 3.1.4. DMA ADRG Raster Graphic Map\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 The U.S. Defense Mapping Agency produces ARC digitized raster graphics datasets by scanning maps and geometrically resampling them into an equirectangular proj
ection, so that they may be directly indexed with WGS84 geographic coordinates. The scale for one map is 0.2 degrees per pixel horizontally, 0.1 degrees per pixel vertically. If stored in a GeoTIFF file it contains the following information:  \par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
      ModelTiepointTag=(0.0, 0.0, 0.0,  -120.0,       32.0,     0.0)\par 
      ModelPixelScale = (0.2, 0.1, 0.0) \par 
      GeoKeyDirectoryTag:\par 
            GTModelTypeGeoKey          =  2   (ModelTypeGeographic)\par 
            GTRasterTypeGeoKey         =  1   (RasterPixelIsArea)\par 
            GeographicTypeGeoKey       =  4326 (GCS_WGS_84)\par 
 \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s253\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 3.2 Less Common Examples\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s252\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 3.2.1. Unrectified Aerial photo, known tiepoints, in degrees.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20    \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 
We have an aerial photo, and know only the WGS84 GPS location of several points in the scene: the upper left corner is 120 degrees West, 32 degrees North, the lower-left corner is at 120 degrees West, 30 degrees 20 minutes North, and the lower-right hand c
orner of the image is at 116 degrees 40 minutes  West, 30 degrees 20 minutes North. The  photo is not geometrically corrected, however, and the complete projection is therefore not known.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20    \par 
    ModelTiepointTag=(   0.0,    0.0, 0.0,  -120.0,       32.0,     0.0,\par 
                         0.0, 1000.0, 0.0,  -120.0,       30.33333, 0.0,\par 
                      1000.0, 1000.0, 0.0,  -116.6666667, 30.33333, 0.0) \par 
      GeoKeyDirectoryTag:\par 
            GTModelTypeGeoKey          =   1 (ModelTypeGeographic)\par 
            GTRasterTypeGeoKey         =   1 (RasterPixelIsArea)\par 
            GeographicTypeGeoKey       = 4326 (GCS_WGS_84)\par 
            \par 
    Remark: Since we have not specified the ModelPixelScaleTag, clients\par 
       reading this GeoTIFF file are not permitted to infer that there\par 
       is a simple linear relationship between the raster data and the\par 
       geographic model coordinate space. The only points that are know\par 
       to be exact are the ones specified in the tiepoint tag.   \par 
   \par 
   \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s252\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 3.2.2. Rotated Scanned Map\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20    \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 
We have a scanned standard British National Grid, covering the 100km grid zone NZ. Consulting documentation for BNG we find that the southwest corner of the NZ zone has an easting,northing of 400000m, 500000m, relative to the BNG standard false origin. Thi
s scanned map has a resolution of 100 meter pixels, and was rotated 90 degrees to fit onto the scanner, so that the southwest corner is now the northwest corner. In this case we must use the ModelTransformation tag rather than the tiep
oint/scale pair to map the raster data into model space:\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20    \par 
      ModelTransformationTag  = (     0, 100.0,     0,   400000.0,\par 
                                  100.0,     0,     0,   500000.0,\par 
                                      0,     0,     0,          0,\par 
                                      0,     0,     0,          1)\par 
      GeoKeyDirectoryTag:\par 
            GTModelTypeGeoKey        =  1 ( ModelTypeProjected)\par 
            GTRasterTypeGeoKey       =  1  (RasterPixelIsArea)\par 
            ProjectedCSTypeGeoKey    =  27700 (PCS_British_National_Grid)\par 
            PCSCitationGeoKey        =  "British National Grid, Zone NZ"\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
Remark: the matrix has 100.0 in the off-diagonals due to the 90 degree rotation; increasing I points north, and increasing J points east.\par 
      \par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s252\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 3.2.3. Digital Elevation Model\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 The DMA stores digital elevation models using an equirectangular projection, so that it may be indexed with WGS84 geographic coordinates. Since elevation postings are point-values, 
the pixels should not be considered as filling areas, but as point-values at grid vertices. To accommodate the base elevation of the Angeles Crest forest, the pixel value of 0 corresponds to an elevation of 1000 meters relative to WGS84 reference ellipsoid
. The upper left corner is at 120 degrees West, 32 degrees North, and has a pixel scale of 0.2 degrees/pixel longitude, 0.1 degrees/pixel latitude.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20       ModelTiepointTag=(0.0, 0.0, 0.0,  -120.0,       32.0,    1000.0)\par 
      ModelPixelScale = (0.2, 0.1, 1.0) \par 
      GeoKeyDirectoryTag:\par 
            GTModelTypeGeoKey          =  2     (ModelTypeGeographic)\par 
            GTRasterTypeGeoKey         =  2     (RasterPixelIsPoint)\par 
            GeographicTypeGeoKey       =  4326  (GCS_WGS_84)\par 
            VerticalCSTypeGeoKey       =  5030  (VertCS_WGS_84_ellipsoid)\par 
            VerticalCitationGeoKey     =  "WGS 84 Ellipsoid"\par 
            VerticalUnitsGeoKey        =  9001     (Linear_Meter)\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20    Remarks: \par 
          1) Note the "RasterPixelIsPoint" raster space, indicating that\par 
             the DEM posting of the first pixel is at the raster point\par 
             (0,0,0), and therefore corresponds to 120W,32N exactly.\par 
          2) The third value of the "PixelScale" is 1.0 to indicate\par 
             that a single pixel-value unit corresponds to 1 meter,\par 
             and the last tiepoint value indicates that base value\par 
             zero indicates 1000m above the reference surface.\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s254\li180\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn\brdrb\brdrs \b\f20\fs36 4 Extended GeoTIFF\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +--------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
This section is for future development TBD.\par 
\par 
Possible additional GeoKeys for Revision 2.0:\par 
\par 
   PerspectHeightGeoKey   (General Vertical Nearsided Perspective)\par 
   SOMInclinAngleGeoKey   (SOM)\par 
   SOMAscendLongGeoKey    (SOM)\par 
   SOMRevPeriodGeoKey     (SOM)\par 
   SOMEndOfPathGeoKey     (SOM)  ? is this needed ?  SHORT\par 
   SOMRatioGeoKey         (SOM)\par 
   SOMPathNumGeoKey       (SOM)    SHORT\par 
   SOMSatelliteNumGeoKey  (SOM)    SHORT\par 
   OEAShapeMGeoKey        (Oblated Equal Area)\par 
   OEAShapeNGeoKey        (Oblated Equal Area)\par 
   OEARotationAngleGeoKey (Oblated Equal Area)\par 
\par 
Other items for consideration:\par 
\par 
o Digital Elevation Model information, such as Vertical Datums, Sounding Datums.\par 
\par 
o Accuracy Keys for linear, circular, and spherical errors, etc.\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 o Source information, such as details of an original coordinate system \par 
  and of transformations between it and the coordinate system in which \par 
  data is being exchanged.\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
+--------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s254\li180\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn\brdrb\brdrs \b\f20\fs36 5 References\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +--------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20  1. EPSG/POSC Projection Coding System Tables. Available via FTP to:\par 
\par 
\par 
     ftp://mtritter.jpl.nasa.gov/pub/tiff/geotiff/tables\par 
    \par 
    or its USGS mirror site:\par 
\par 
      ftp://ftpmcmc.cr.usgs.gov/release/geotiff/jpl-mirror/tables\par 
 \par 
\par 
 2. TIFF Revision 6.0 Specification: A PDF formatted version\par 
    is available via FTP to:\par 
\par 
ftp://ftp.adobe.com/pub/adobe/DeveloperSupport/TechNotes/PDFfiles/TIFF6.pdf\par 
\par 
     PostScript formatted text versions available at:.\par 
\par 
       ftp://sgi.com/graphics/tiff/TIFF6.ps.Z   (compressed)\par 
       ftp://sgi.com/graphics/tiff/TIFF6.ps     (uncompressed)\par 
\par 
 3. LIBGEOTIFF -- Public Domain GeoTIFF library, available via anonymous\par 
    FTP to:\par 
\par 
      ftp://mtritter.jpl.nasa.gov/pub/tiff/geotiff/code\par 
\par 
   or its USGS mirror site:\par 
\par 
      ftp://ftpmcmc.cr.usgs.gov/release/geotiff/jpl-mirror/code\par 
\par 
\par 
 4. LIBTIFF -- Public Domain TIFF library, available via anonymous\par 
    FTP to:\par 
\par 
      ftp://sgi.com/graphics/tiff/\par 
\par 
 \par 
 5. Spatial Data Transfer Standard (SDTS) of the USGS.\par 
   (Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) 173):\par 
\par 
   \par 
      ftp://sdts.er.usgs.gov/pub/sdts/\par 
 \par 
        SDTS Task Force\par 
        U.S. Geological Survey\par 
        526 National Center\par 
        Reston, VA 22092 \par 
        \par 
        E-mail: sdts@usgs.gov \par 
\par 
 6. Map use: reading, analysis, interpretation.\par 
       Muehrcke, Phillip C. 1986. Madison, WI: JP Publications. \par 
\par 
 \par 
 7. Map projections: a working manual. Snyder, John P. 1987. \par 
    USGS Professional Paper 1395.\par 
    Washington, DC: United States Government Printing Office. \par 
\par 
\par 
 8. Notes for GIS and The Geographer's Craft at U. Texas, on the \par 
    World Wide Web (WWW) (current as of 10 April 1995):\par 
\par 
    \par 
     http://wwwhost.cc.utexas.edu/ftp/pub/grg/gcraft/notes/notes.html\par 
\par 
\par 
 9. Digital Geographic Information Exchange Standard (DIGEST).\par 
     Allied Geographic Publication No 3, Edition 1.2 (AGeoP-3)\par 
     (NATO Unclassified).\par 
\par 
10. POSC Petrotechnical Open Software Corporation Web site:  \par 
\par 
      http://www.posc.org/\par 
\par 
 \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +--------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s254\li180\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn\brdrb\brdrs \b\f20\fs36 6 Appendices\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +--------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s253\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 6.1 Tag ID Summary\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 Here are all of the TIFF tags (and their owners) that are used to store GeoTIFF information of any type. It is very unlikely that any other tags will be necessary in the future (since most additional inform
ation will be encoded as a GeoKey).\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
    ModelPixelScaleTag     = 33550 (SoftDesk)\par 
    ModelTransformationTag = 34264 (JPL Carto Group)\par 
    ModelTiepointTag       = 33922 (Intergraph)\par 
    GeoKeyDirectoryTag     = 34735 (SPOT)\par 
    GeoDoubleParamsTag     = 34736 (SPOT)\par 
    GeoAsciiParamsTag      = 34737 (SPOT)\par 
\par 
  Obsoleted Implementation:\par 
 \par 
    IntergraphMatrixTag = 33920 (Intergraph) -- Use ModelTransformationTag.\par 
  \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s253\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 6.2 Key ID Summary\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +----------------------------------+\par 
\par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s252\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 6.2.1 GeoTIFF Configuration Keys\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
   GTModelTypeGeoKey            = 1024 /* Section 6.3.1.1 Codes       */\par 
   GTRasterTypeGeoKey           = 1025 /* Section 6.3.1.2 Codes       */\par 
   GTCitationGeoKey             = 1026 /* documentation */\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s252\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 6.2.2 Geographic CS Parameter Keys\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20    GeographicTypeGeoKey         = 2048 /* Section 6.3.2.1 Codes     */\par 
   GeogCitationGeoKey           = 2049 /* documentation             */\par 
   GeogGeodeticDatumGeoKey      = 2050 /* Section 6.3.2.2 Codes     */\par 
   GeogPrimeMeridianGeoKey      = 2051 /* Section 6.3.2.4 codes     */\par 
   GeogLinearUnitsGeoKey        = 2052 /* Section 6.3.1.3 Codes     */\par 
   GeogLinearUnitSizeGeoKey     = 2053 /* meters                    */\par 
   GeogAngularUnitsGeoKey       = 2054 /* Section 6.3.1.4 Codes     */\par 
   GeogAngularUnitSizeGeoKey    = 2055 /* radians                   */\par 
   GeogEllipsoidGeoKey          = 2056 /* Section 6.3.2.3 Codes     */\par 
   GeogSemiMajorAxisGeoKey      = 2057 /* GeogLinearUnits           */\par 
   GeogSemiMinorAxisGeoKey      = 2058 /* GeogLinearUnits           */\par 
   GeogInvFlatteningGeoKey      = 2059 /* ratio                     */\par 
   GeogAzimuthUnitsGeoKey       = 2060 /* Section 6.3.1.4 Codes     */\par 
   GeogPrimeMeridianLongGeoKey  = 2061 /* GeogAngularUnit           */\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20     \par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s252\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 6.2.3 Projected CS Parameter Keys\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20   \par 
\par 
   ProjectedCSTypeGeoKey          = 3072  /* Section 6.3.3.1 codes   */\par 
   PCSCitationGeoKey              = 3073  /* documentation           */\par 
   ProjectionGeoKey               = 3074  /* Section 6.3.3.2 codes   */\par 
   ProjCoordTransGeoKey           = 3075  /* Section 6.3.3.3 codes   */\par 
   ProjLinearUnitsGeoKey          = 3076  /* Section 6.3.1.3 codes   */\par 
   ProjLinearUnitSizeGeoKey       = 3077  /* meters                  */\par 
   ProjStdParallel1GeoKey         = 3078  /* GeogAngularUnit */\par 
   ProjStdParallel2GeoKey         = 3079  /* GeogAngularUnit */\par 
   ProjNatOriginLongGeoKey        = 3080  /* GeogAngularUnit */\par 
   ProjNatOriginLatGeoKey         = 3081  /* GeogAngularUnit */\par 
   ProjFalseEastingGeoKey         = 3082  /* ProjLinearUnits */\par 
   ProjFalseNorthingGeoKey        = 3083  /* ProjLinearUnits */\par 
   ProjFalseOriginLongGeoKey      = 3084  /* GeogAngularUnit */\par 
   ProjFalseOriginLatGeoKey       = 3085  /* GeogAngularUnit */\par 
   ProjFalseOriginEastingGeoKey   = 3086  /* ProjLinearUnits */\par 
   ProjFalseOriginNorthingGeoKey  = 3087  /* ProjLinearUnits */\par 
   ProjCenterLongGeoKey           = 3088  /* GeogAngularUnit */\par 
   ProjCenterLatGeoKey            = 3089  /* GeogAngularUnit */\par 
   ProjCenterEastingGeoKey        = 3090  /* ProjLinearUnits */\par 
   ProjCenterNorthingGeoKey       = 3091  /* ProjLinearUnits */\par 
   ProjScaleAtNatOriginGeoKey     = 3092  /* ratio   */\par 
   ProjScaleAtCenterGeoKey        = 3093  /* ratio   */\par 
   ProjAzimuthAngleGeoKey         = 3094  /* GeogAzimuthUnit */\par 
   ProjStraightVertPoleLongGeoKey = 3095  /* GeogAngularUnit */\par 
\par 
Aliases:\par 
\par 
   ProjStdParallelGeoKey\tab = ProjStdParallel1GeoKey\par 
   ProjOriginLongGeoKey\tab = ProjNatOriginLongGeoKey \par 
   ProjOriginLatGeoKey\tab = ProjNatOriginLatGeoKey  \par 
   ProjScaleAtOriginGeoKey\tab = ProjScaleAtNatOriginGeoKey\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20  \par 
\par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s252\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 6.2.4 Vertical CS Keys\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20    \par 
   VerticalCSTypeGeoKey           = 4096   /* Section 6.3.4.1 codes   */\par 
   VerticalCitationGeoKey         = 4097   /* documentation */\par 
   VerticalDatumGeoKey            = 4098   /* Section 6.3.4.2 codes   */\par 
   VerticalUnitsGeoKey            = 4099   /* Section 6.3.1.3 codes   */\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 +---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s253\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 6.3 Key Code Summary\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s252\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 6.3.1 GeoTIFF General Codes\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 This section includes the general "Configuration" key codes, as well as general codes which are used by more than one key (e.g. units codes).\par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s251\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 6.3.1.1 Model Type Codes\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
Ranges:\par 
\par 
   0              = undefined\par 
   [   1,  32766] = GeoTIFF Reserved Codes\par 
   32767          = user-defined\par 
   [32768, 65535] = Private User Implementations\par 
\par 
GeoTIFF defined CS Model Type Codes:\par 
\par 
   ModelTypeProjected   = 1   /* Projection Coordinate System         */\par 
   ModelTypeGeographic  = 2   /* Geographic latitude-longitude System */\par 
   ModelTypeGeocentric  = 3   /* Geocentric (X,Y,Z) Coordinate System */\par 
 \par 
Notes:\par 
\par 
   1. ModelTypeGeographic and ModelTypeProjected\par 
      correspond to the FGDC metadata Geographic and\par 
      Planar-Projected coordinate system types.\par 
   \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s251\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 6.3.1.2 Raster Type Codes\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Ranges:\par 
\par 
   0             = undefined\par 
   [   1,  1023] = Raster Type Codes (GeoTIFF Defined)\par 
   [1024, 32766] = Reserved\par 
   32767         = user-defined\par 
   [32768, 65535]= Private User Implementations\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Values:\par 
   RasterPixelIsArea  = 1\par 
   RasterPixelIsPoint = 2\par 
\par 
Note: Use of "user-defined" or "undefined" raster codes is not recommended.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s251\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 6.3.1.3 Linear Units Codes\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
There are several different kinds of units that may be used in geographically relate
d raster data: linear units, angular units, units of time (e.g. for radar-return), CCD-voltages, etc. For this reason there will be a single, unique range for each kind of unit, broken down into the following currently defined ranges:\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
\par 
Ranges:\par 
\par 
   0             = undefined\par 
   [   1,  2000] = Obsolete GeoTIFF codes\par 
   [2001,  8999] = Reserved by GeoTIFF\par 
   [9000,  9099] = EPSG Linear Units.\par 
   [9100,  9199] = EPSG Angular Units.\par 
   32767         = user-defined unit\par 
   [32768, 65535]= Private User Implementations\par 
\par 
Linear Unit Values (See the ESPG/POSC tables for definition):\par 
\par 
   Linear_Meter =\tab 9001\par 
   Linear_Foot =\tab 9002\par 
   Linear_Foot_US_Survey =\tab 9003\par 
   Linear_Foot_Modified_American =\tab 9004\par 
   Linear_Foot_Clarke =\tab 9005\par 
   Linear_Foot_Indian =\tab 9006\par 
   Linear_Link =\tab 9007\par 
   Linear_Link_Benoit =\tab 9008\par 
   Linear_Link_Sears =\tab 9009\par 
   Linear_Chain_Benoit =\tab 9010\par 
   Linear_Chain_Sears =\tab 9011\par 
   Linear_Yard_Sears =\tab 9012\par 
   Linear_Yard_Indian =\tab 9013\par 
   Linear_Fathom =\tab 9014\par 
   Linear_Mile_International_Nautical =\tab 9015\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
\par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s251\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 6.3.1.4 Angular Units Codes\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 These codes shall be used for any key that requires specification of an angular unit of measurement.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
Angular Units    \par 
\par 
   Angular_Radian =\tab 9101\par 
   Angular_Degree =\tab 9102\par 
   Angular_Arc_Minute =\tab 9103\par 
   Angular_Arc_Second =\tab 9104\par 
   Angular_Grad =\tab 9105\par 
   Angular_Gon =\tab 9106\par 
   Angular_DMS =\tab 9107\par 
   Angular_DMS_Hemisphere =\tab 9108\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20    \par 
\par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s252\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 6.3.2 Geographic CS Codes\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s251\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 6.3.2.1 Geographic CS Type Codes\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 

Note: A Geographic coordinate system consists of both a datum and a Prime Meridian. Some of the names are very similar, and differ only in the Prime Meridian, so be sure to use the correct one. The codes beginning with GCSE_xxx are unspecified GCS which us
e ellipsoid (xxx); it is recommended that only the codes beginning with GCS_ be used if possible.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Ranges:\par 
     \par 
   0 = undefined\par 
   [    1,  1000] = Obsolete EPSG/POSC Geographic Codes\par 
   [ 1001,  3999] = Reserved by GeoTIFF\par 
   [ 4000, 4199]  = EPSG GCS Based on Ellipsoid only\par 
   [ 4200, 4999]  = EPSG GCS Based on EPSG Datum\par 
   [ 5000, 32766] = Reserved by GeoTIFF\par 
   32767          = user-defined GCS\par 
   [32768, 65535] = Private User Implementations\par 
\par 
Values:\par 
\par 
  Note: Geodetic datum using Greenwich PM have codes equal to\par 
  the corresponding Datum code - 2000.\par 
\par 
   GCS_Adindan =\tab 4201\par 
   GCS_AGD66 =\tab 4202\par 
   GCS_AGD84 =\tab 4203\par 
   GCS_Ain_el_Abd =\tab 4204\par 
   GCS_Afgooye =\tab 4205\par 
   GCS_Agadez =\tab 4206\par 
   GCS_Lisbon =\tab 4207\par 
   GCS_Aratu =\tab 4208\par 
   GCS_Arc_1950 =\tab 4209\par 
   GCS_Arc_1960 =\tab 4210\par 
   GCS_Batavia =\tab 4211\par 
   GCS_Barbados =\tab 4212\par 
   GCS_Beduaram =\tab 4213\par 
   GCS_Beijing_1954 =\tab 4214\par 
   GCS_Belge_1950 =\tab 4215\par 
   GCS_Bermuda_1957 =\tab 4216\par 
   GCS_Bern_1898 =\tab 4217\par 
   GCS_Bogota =\tab 4218\par 
   GCS_Bukit_Rimpah =\tab 4219\par 
   GCS_Camacupa =\tab 4220\par 
   GCS_Campo_Inchauspe =\tab 4221\par 
   GCS_Cape =\tab 4222\par 
   GCS_Carthage =\tab 4223\par 
   GCS_Chua =\tab 4224\par 
   GCS_Corrego_Alegre =\tab 4225\par 
   GCS_Cote_d_Ivoire =\tab 4226\par 
   GCS_Deir_ez_Zor =\tab 4227\par 
   GCS_Douala =\tab 4228\par 
   GCS_Egypt_1907 =\tab 4229\par 
   GCS_ED50 =\tab 4230\par 
   GCS_ED87 =\tab 4231\par 
   GCS_Fahud =\tab 4232\par 
   GCS_Gandajika_1970 =\tab 4233\par 
   GCS_Garoua =\tab 4234\par 
   GCS_Guyane_Francaise =\tab 4235\par 
   GCS_Hu_Tzu_Shan =\tab 4236\par 
   GCS_HD72 =\tab 4237\par 
   GCS_ID74 =\tab 4238\par 
   GCS_Indian_1954 =\tab 4239\par 
   GCS_Indian_1975 =\tab 4240\par 
   GCS_Jamaica_1875 =\tab 4241\par 
   GCS_JAD69 =\tab 4242\par 
   GCS_Kalianpur =\tab 4243\par 
   GCS_Kandawala =\tab 4244\par 
   GCS_Kertau =\tab 4245\par 
   GCS_KOC =\tab 4246\par 
   GCS_La_Canoa =\tab 4247\par 
   GCS_PSAD56 =\tab 4248\par 
   GCS_Lake =\tab 4249\par 
   GCS_Leigon =\tab 4250\par 
   GCS_Liberia_1964 =\tab 4251\par 
   GCS_Lome =\tab 4252\par 
   GCS_Luzon_1911 =\tab 4253\par 
   GCS_Hito_XVIII_1963 =\tab 4254\par 
   GCS_Herat_North =\tab 4255\par 
   GCS_Mahe_1971 =\tab 4256\par 
   GCS_Makassar =\tab 4257\par 
   GCS_EUREF89 =\tab 4258\par 
   GCS_Malongo_1987 =\tab 4259\par 
   GCS_Manoca =\tab 4260\par 
   GCS_Merchich =\tab 4261\par 
   GCS_Massawa =\tab 4262\par 
   GCS_Minna =\tab 4263\par 
   GCS_Mhast =\tab 4264\par 
   GCS_Monte_Mario =\tab 4265\par 
   GCS_M_poraloko =\tab 4266\par 
   GCS_NAD27 =\tab 4267\par 
   GCS_NAD_Michigan =\tab 4268\par 
   GCS_NAD83 =\tab 4269\par 
   GCS_Nahrwan_1967 =\tab 4270\par 
   GCS_Naparima_1972 =\tab 4271\par 
   GCS_GD49 =\tab 4272\par 
   GCS_NGO_1948 =\tab 4273\par 
   GCS_Datum_73 =\tab 4274\par 
   GCS_NTF =\tab 4275\par 
   GCS_NSWC_9Z_2 =\tab 4276\par 
   GCS_OSGB_1936 =\tab 4277\par 
   GCS_OSGB70 =\tab 4278\par 
   GCS_OS_SN80 =\tab 4279\par 
   GCS_Padang =\tab 4280\par 
   GCS_Palestine_1923 =\tab 4281\par 
   GCS_Pointe_Noire =\tab 4282\par 
   GCS_GDA94 =\tab 4283\par 
   GCS_Pulkovo_1942 =\tab 4284\par 
   GCS_Qatar =\tab 4285\par 
   GCS_Qatar_1948 =\tab 4286\par 
   GCS_Qornoq =\tab 4287\par 
   GCS_Loma_Quintana =\tab 4288\par 
   GCS_Amersfoort =\tab 4289\par 
   GCS_RT38 =\tab 4290\par 
   GCS_SAD69 =\tab 4291\par 
   GCS_Sapper_Hill_1943 =\tab 4292\par 
   GCS_Schwarzeck =\tab 4293\par 
   GCS_Segora =\tab 4294\par 
   GCS_Serindung =\tab 4295\par 
   GCS_Sudan =\tab 4296\par 
   GCS_Tananarive =\tab 4297\par 
   GCS_Timbalai_1948 =\tab 4298\par 
   GCS_TM65 =\tab 4299\par 
   GCS_TM75 =\tab 4300\par 
   GCS_Tokyo =\tab 4301\par 
   GCS_Trinidad_1903 =\tab 4302\par 
   GCS_TC_1948 =\tab 4303\par 
   GCS_Voirol_1875 =\tab 4304\par 
   GCS_Voirol_Unifie =\tab 4305\par 
   GCS_Bern_1938 =\tab 4306\par 
   GCS_Nord_Sahara_1959 =\tab 4307\par 
   GCS_Stockholm_1938 =\tab 4308\par 
   GCS_Yacare =\tab 4309\par 
   GCS_Yoff =\tab 4310\par 
   GCS_Zanderij =\tab 4311\par 
   GCS_MGI =\tab 4312\par 
   GCS_Belge_1972 =\tab 4313\par 
   GCS_DHDN =\tab 4314\par 
   GCS_Conakry_1905 =\tab 4315\par 
   GCS_WGS_72 =\tab 4322\par 
   GCS_WGS_72BE =\tab 4324\par 
   GCS_WGS_84 =\tab 4326\par 
   GCS_Bern_1898_Bern =\tab 4801\par 
   GCS_Bogota_Bogota =\tab 4802\par 
   GCS_Lisbon_Lisbon =\tab 4803\par 
   GCS_Makassar_Jakarta =\tab 4804\par 
   GCS_MGI_Ferro =\tab 4805\par 
   GCS_Monte_Mario_Rome =\tab 4806\par 
   GCS_NTF_Paris =\tab 4807\par 
   GCS_Padang_Jakarta =\tab 4808\par 
   GCS_Belge_1950_Brussels =\tab 4809\par 
   GCS_Tananarive_Paris =\tab 4810\par 
   GCS_Voirol_1875_Paris =\tab 4811\par 
   GCS_Voirol_Unifie_Paris =\tab 4812\par 
   GCS_Batavia_Jakarta =\tab 4813\par 
   GCS_ATF_Paris =\tab 4901\par 
   GCS_NDG_Paris =\tab 4902\par 
\par 
Ellipsoid-Only GCS:\par 
\par 
   Note: the numeric code is equal to the code of the correspoding\par 
   EPSG ellipsoid, minus 3000.\par 
\par 
   GCSE_Airy1830 =\tab 4001\par 
   GCSE_AiryModified1849 =\tab 4002\par 
   GCSE_AustralianNationalSpheroid =\tab 4003\par 
   GCSE_Bessel1841 =\tab 4004\par 
   GCSE_BesselModified =\tab 4005\par 
   GCSE_BesselNamibia =\tab 4006\par 
   GCSE_Clarke1858 =\tab 4007\par 
   GCSE_Clarke1866 =\tab 4008\par 
   GCSE_Clarke1866Michigan =\tab 4009\par 
   GCSE_Clarke1880_Benoit =\tab 4010\par 
   GCSE_Clarke1880_IGN =\tab 4011\par 
   GCSE_Clarke1880_RGS =\tab 4012\par 
   GCSE_Clarke1880_Arc =\tab 4013\par 
   GCSE_Clarke1880_SGA1922 =\tab 4014\par 
   GCSE_Everest1830_1937Adjustment =\tab 4015\par 
   GCSE_Everest1830_1967Definition =\tab 4016\par 
   GCSE_Everest1830_1975Definition =\tab 4017\par 
   GCSE_Everest1830Modified =\tab 4018\par 
   GCSE_GRS1980 =\tab 4019\par 
   GCSE_Helmert1906 =\tab 4020\par 
   GCSE_IndonesianNationalSpheroid =\tab 4021\par 
   GCSE_International1924 =\tab 4022\par 
   GCSE_International1967 =\tab 4023\par 
   GCSE_Krassowsky1940 =\tab 4024\par 
   GCSE_NWL9D =\tab 4025\par 
   GCSE_NWL10D =\tab 4026\par 
   GCSE_Plessis1817 =\tab 4027\par 
   GCSE_Struve1860 =\tab 4028\par 
   GCSE_WarOffice =\tab 4029\par 
   GCSE_WGS84 =\tab 4030\par 
   GCSE_GEM10C =\tab 4031\par 
   GCSE_OSU86F =\tab 4032\par 
   GCSE_OSU91A =\tab 4033\par 
   GCSE_Clarke1880 =\tab 4034\par 
   GCSE_Sphere =\tab 4035\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s251\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 6.3.2.2 Geodetic Datum Codes\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 
Note: these codes do not include the Prime Meridian; if possible use the GCS codes above if the datum and Prime Meridian are on the list. Also, as with the GCS codes, the codes beginning with DatumE_xxx refer only to the specified ellipsoid (xxx); if possi
ble use instead the named datums beginning with Datum_xxx\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Ranges:, \par 
\par 
   0 = undefined\par 
   [    1,  1000] = Obsolete EPSG/POSC Datum Codes\par 
   [ 1001,  5999] = Reserved by GeoTIFF\par 
   [ 6000, 6199]  = EPSG Datum Based on Ellipsoid only\par 
   [ 6200, 6999]  = EPSG Datum Based on EPSG Datum\par 
   [ 6322, 6327]  = WGS Datum\par 
   [ 6900, 6999]  = Archaic Datum\par 
   [ 7000, 32766] = Reserved by GeoTIFF\par 
   32767          = user-defined GCS\par 
   [32768, 65535] = Private User Implementations\par 
\par 
Values:\par 
\par 
   Datum_Adindan =\tab 6201\par 
   Datum_Australian_Geodetic_Datum_1966 =\tab 6202\par 
   Datum_Australian_Geodetic_Datum_1984 =\tab 6203\par 
   Datum_Ain_el_Abd_1970 =\tab 6204\par 
   Datum_Afgooye =\tab 6205\par 
   Datum_Agadez =\tab 6206\par 
   Datum_Lisbon =\tab 6207\par 
   Datum_Aratu =\tab 6208\par 
   Datum_Arc_1950 =\tab 6209\par 
   Datum_Arc_1960 =\tab 6210\par 
   Datum_Batavia =\tab 6211\par 
   Datum_Barbados =\tab 6212\par 
   Datum_Beduaram =\tab 6213\par 
   Datum_Beijing_1954 =\tab 6214\par 
   Datum_Reseau_National_Belge_1950 =\tab 6215\par 
   Datum_Bermuda_1957 =\tab 6216\par 
   Datum_Bern_1898 =\tab 6217\par 
   Datum_Bogota =\tab 6218\par 
   Datum_Bukit_Rimpah =\tab 6219\par 
   Datum_Camacupa =\tab 6220\par 
   Datum_Campo_Inchauspe =\tab 6221\par 
   Datum_Cape =\tab 6222\par 
   Datum_Carthage =\tab 6223\par 
   Datum_Chua =\tab 6224\par 
   Datum_Corrego_Alegre =\tab 6225\par 
   Datum_Cote_d_Ivoire =\tab 6226\par 
   Datum_Deir_ez_Zor =\tab 6227\par 
   Datum_Douala =\tab 6228\par 
   Datum_Egypt_1907 =\tab 6229\par 
   Datum_European_Datum_1950 =\tab 6230\par 
   Datum_European_Datum_1987 =\tab 6231\par 
   Datum_Fahud =\tab 6232\par 
   Datum_Gandajika_1970 =\tab 6233\par 
   Datum_Garoua =\tab 6234\par 
   Datum_Guyane_Francaise =\tab 6235\par 
   Datum_Hu_Tzu_Shan =\tab 6236\par 
   Datum_Hungarian_Datum_1972 =\tab 6237\par 
   Datum_Indonesian_Datum_1974 =\tab 6238\par 
   Datum_Indian_1954 =\tab 6239\par 
   Datum_Indian_1975 =\tab 6240\par 
   Datum_Jamaica_1875 =\tab 6241\par 
   Datum_Jamaica_1969 =\tab 6242\par 
   Datum_Kalianpur =\tab 6243\par 
   Datum_Kandawala =\tab 6244\par 
   Datum_Kertau =\tab 6245\par 
   Datum_Kuwait_Oil_Company =\tab 6246\par 
   Datum_La_Canoa =\tab 6247\par 
   Datum_Provisional_S_American_Datum_1956 =\tab 6248\par 
   Datum_Lake =\tab 6249\par 
   Datum_Leigon =\tab 6250\par 
   Datum_Liberia_1964 =\tab 6251\par 
   Datum_Lome =\tab 6252\par 
   Datum_Luzon_1911 =\tab 6253\par 
   Datum_Hito_XVIII_1963 =\tab 6254\par 
   Datum_Herat_North =\tab 6255\par 
   Datum_Mahe_1971 =\tab 6256\par 
   Datum_Makassar =\tab 6257\par 
   Datum_European_Reference_System_1989 =\tab 6258\par 
   Datum_Malongo_1987 =\tab 6259\par 
   Datum_Manoca =\tab 6260\par 
   Datum_Merchich =\tab 6261\par 
   Datum_Massawa =\tab 6262\par 
   Datum_Minna =\tab 6263\par 
   Datum_Mhast =\tab 6264\par 
   Datum_Monte_Mario =\tab 6265\par 
   Datum_M_poraloko =\tab 6266\par 
   Datum_North_American_Datum_1927 =\tab 6267\par 
   Datum_NAD_Michigan =\tab 6268\par 
   Datum_North_American_Datum_1983 =\tab 6269\par 
   Datum_Nahrwan_1967 =\tab 6270\par 
   Datum_Naparima_1972 =\tab 6271\par 
   Datum_New_Zealand_Geodetic_Datum_1949 =\tab 6272\par 
   Datum_NGO_1948 =\tab 6273\par 
   Datum_Datum_73 =\tab 6274\par 
   Datum_Nouvelle_Triangulation_Francaise =\tab 6275\par 
   Datum_NSWC_9Z_2 =\tab 6276\par 
   Datum_OSGB_1936 =\tab 6277\par 
   Datum_OSGB_1970_SN =\tab 6278\par 
   Datum_OS_SN_1980 =\tab 6279\par 
   Datum_Padang_1884 =\tab 6280\par 
   Datum_Palestine_1923 =\tab 6281\par 
   Datum_Pointe_Noire =\tab 6282\par 
   Datum_Geocentric_Datum_of_Australia_1994 =\tab 6283\par 
   Datum_Pulkovo_1942 =\tab 6284\par 
   Datum_Qatar =\tab 6285\par 
   Datum_Qatar_1948 =\tab 6286\par 
   Datum_Qornoq =\tab 6287\par 
   Datum_Loma_Quintana =\tab 6288\par 
   Datum_Amersfoort =\tab 6289\par 
   Datum_RT38 =\tab 6290\par 
   Datum_South_American_Datum_1969 =\tab 6291\par 
   Datum_Sapper_Hill_1943 =\tab 6292\par 
   Datum_Schwarzeck =\tab 6293\par 
   Datum_Segora =\tab 6294\par 
   Datum_Serindung =\tab 6295\par 
   Datum_Sudan =\tab 6296\par 
   Datum_Tananarive_1925 =\tab 6297\par 
   Datum_Timbalai_1948 =\tab 6298\par 
   Datum_TM65 =\tab 6299\par 
   Datum_TM75 =\tab 6300\par 
   Datum_Tokyo =\tab 6301\par 
   Datum_Trinidad_1903 =\tab 6302\par 
   Datum_Trucial_Coast_1948 =\tab 6303\par 
   Datum_Voirol_1875 =\tab 6304\par 
   Datum_Voirol_Unifie_1960 =\tab 6305\par 
   Datum_Bern_1938 =\tab 6306\par 
   Datum_Nord_Sahara_1959 =\tab 6307\par 
   Datum_Stockholm_1938 =\tab 6308\par 
   Datum_Yacare =\tab 6309\par 
   Datum_Yoff =\tab 6310\par 
   Datum_Zanderij =\tab 6311\par 
   Datum_Militar_Geographische_Institut =\tab 6312\par 
   Datum_Reseau_National_Belge_1972 =\tab 6313\par 
   Datum_Deutsche_Hauptdreiecksnetz =\tab 6314\par 
   Datum_Conakry_1905 =\tab 6315\par 
   Datum_WGS72 =\tab 6322\par 
   Datum_WGS72_Transit_Broadcast_Ephemeris =\tab 6324\par 
   Datum_WGS84 =\tab 6326\par 
   Datum_Ancienne_Triangulation_Francaise =\tab 6901\par 
   Datum_Nord_de_Guerre =\tab 6902\par 
\par 
Ellipsoid-Only Datum:\par 
\par 
   Note: the numeric code is equal to the corresponding ellipsoid\par 
   code, minus 1000.\par 
\par 
   DatumE_Airy1830 =\tab 6001\par 
   DatumE_AiryModified1849 =\tab 6002\par 
   DatumE_AustralianNationalSpheroid =\tab 6003\par 
   DatumE_Bessel1841 =\tab 6004\par 
   DatumE_BesselModified =\tab 6005\par 
   DatumE_BesselNamibia =\tab 6006\par 
   DatumE_Clarke1858 =\tab 6007\par 
   DatumE_Clarke1866 =\tab 6008\par 
   DatumE_Clarke1866Michigan =\tab 6009\par 
   DatumE_Clarke1880_Benoit =\tab 6010\par 
   DatumE_Clarke1880_IGN =\tab 6011\par 
   DatumE_Clarke1880_RGS =\tab 6012\par 
   DatumE_Clarke1880_Arc =\tab 6013\par 
   DatumE_Clarke1880_SGA1922 =\tab 6014\par 
   DatumE_Everest1830_1937Adjustment =\tab 6015\par 
   DatumE_Everest1830_1967Definition =\tab 6016\par 
   DatumE_Everest1830_1975Definition =\tab 6017\par 
   DatumE_Everest1830Modified =\tab 6018\par 
   DatumE_GRS1980 =\tab 6019\par 
   DatumE_Helmert1906 =\tab 6020\par 
   DatumE_IndonesianNationalSpheroid =\tab 6021\par 
   DatumE_International1924 =\tab 6022\par 
   DatumE_International1967 =\tab 6023\par 
   DatumE_Krassowsky1960 =\tab 6024\par 
   DatumE_NWL9D =\tab 6025\par 
   DatumE_NWL10D =\tab 6026\par 
   DatumE_Plessis1817 =\tab 6027\par 
   DatumE_Struve1860 =\tab 6028\par 
   DatumE_WarOffice =\tab 6029\par 
   DatumE_WGS84 =\tab 6030\par 
   DatumE_GEM10C =\tab 6031\par 
   DatumE_OSU86F =\tab 6032\par 
   DatumE_OSU91A =\tab 6033\par 
   DatumE_Clarke1880 =\tab 6034\par 
   DatumE_Sphere =\tab 6035\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s251\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 6.3.2.3 Ellipsoid Codes\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
Ranges:\par 
\par 
   0 = undefined\par 
   [    1, 1000]  = Obsolete EPSG/POSC Ellipsoid codes\par 
   [1001,  6999]  = Reserved by GeoTIFF\par 
   [7000,  7999]  = EPSG Ellipsoid codes\par 
   [8000, 32766]  = Reserved by GeoTIFF\par 
   32767          = user-defined\par 
   [32768, 65535] = Private User Implementations\par 
\par 
Values:\par 
\par 
   Ellipse_Airy_1830 =\tab 7001\par 
   Ellipse_Airy_Modified_1849 =\tab 7002\par 
   Ellipse_Australian_National_Spheroid =\tab 7003\par 
   Ellipse_Bessel_1841 =\tab 7004\par 
   Ellipse_Bessel_Modified =\tab 7005\par 
   Ellipse_Bessel_Namibia =\tab 7006\par 
   Ellipse_Clarke_1858 =\tab 7007\par 
   Ellipse_Clarke_1866 =\tab 7008\par 
   Ellipse_Clarke_1866_Michigan =\tab 7009\par 
   Ellipse_Clarke_1880_Benoit =\tab 7010\par 
   Ellipse_Clarke_1880_IGN =\tab 7011\par 
   Ellipse_Clarke_1880_RGS =\tab 7012\par 
   Ellipse_Clarke_1880_Arc =\tab 7013\par 
   Ellipse_Clarke_1880_SGA_1922 =\tab 7014\par 
   Ellipse_Everest_1830_1937_Adjustment =\tab 7015\par 
   Ellipse_Everest_1830_1967_Definition =\tab 7016\par 
   Ellipse_Everest_1830_1975_Definition =\tab 7017\par 
   Ellipse_Everest_1830_Modified =\tab 7018\par 
   Ellipse_GRS_1980 =\tab 7019\par 
   Ellipse_Helmert_1906 =\tab 7020\par 
   Ellipse_Indonesian_National_Spheroid =\tab 7021\par 
   Ellipse_International_1924 =\tab 7022\par 
   Ellipse_International_1967 =\tab 7023\par 
   Ellipse_Krassowsky_1940 =\tab 7024\par 
   Ellipse_NWL_9D =\tab 7025\par 
   Ellipse_NWL_10D =\tab 7026\par 
   Ellipse_Plessis_1817 =\tab 7027\par 
   Ellipse_Struve_1860 =\tab 7028\par 
   Ellipse_War_Office =\tab 7029\par 
   Ellipse_WGS_84 =\tab 7030\par 
   Ellipse_GEM_10C =\tab 7031\par 
   Ellipse_OSU86F =\tab 7032\par 
   Ellipse_OSU91A =\tab 7033\par 
   Ellipse_Clarke_1880 =\tab 7034\par 
   Ellipse_Sphere =\tab 7035\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
\par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s251\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 6.3.2.4 Prime Meridian Codes\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Ranges:\par 
\par 
   0 = undefined\par 
   [    1,   100] = Obsolete EPSG/POSC Prime Meridian codes\par 
   [  101,  7999] = Reserved by GeoTIFF\par 
   [ 8000,  8999] = EPSG Prime Meridian Codes\par 
   [ 9000, 32766] = Reserved by GeoTIFF\par 
   32767          = user-defined\par 
   [32768, 65535] = Private User Implementations\par 
\par 
Values:\par 
\par 
   PM_Greenwich =\tab 8901\par 
   PM_Lisbon =\tab 8902\par 
   PM_Paris =\tab 8903\par 
   PM_Bogota =\tab 8904\par 
   PM_Madrid =\tab 8905\par 
   PM_Rome =\tab 8906\par 
   PM_Bern =\tab 8907\par 
   PM_Jakarta =\tab 8908\par 
   PM_Ferro =\tab 8909\par 
   PM_Brussels =\tab 8910\par 
   PM_Stockholm =\tab 8911\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s252\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 6.3.3 Projected CS Codes\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s251\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 6.3.3.1 Projected CS Type Codes\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Ranges:\par 
\par 
   [    1,   1000]  = Obsolete EPSG/POSC Projection System Codes\par 
   [20000,  32760]  = EPSG Projection System codes\par 
   32767            = user-defined\par 
   [32768,  65535]  = Private User Implementations\par 
\par 
Special Ranges:\par 
\par 
1. For PCS utilising GeogCS with code in range 4201 through 4321 \par 
(i.e. geodetic datum code 6201 through 6319): As far as is possible\par 
 the PCS code will be of the format gggzz where ggg is (geodetic \par 
datum code -2000) and zz is zone.\par 
\par 
2. For PCS utilising GeogCS with code out of range 4201 through 4321 \par 
(i.e. geodetic datum code 6201 through 6319). PCS code 20xxx where \par 
xxx is a sequential number.\par 
\par 
3. Other:\par 
   WGS72 / UTM northern hemisphere:\tab 322zz where zz is UTM zone number\par 
   WGS72 / UTM southern hemisphere:\tab 323zz where zz is UTM zone number\par 
   WGS72BE / UTM northern hemisphere: 324zz where zz is UTM zone number\par 
   WGS72BE / UTM southern hemisphere: 325zz where zz is UTM zone number\par 
   WGS84 / UTM northern hemisphere:\tab 326zz where zz is UTM zone number\par 
   WGS84 / UTM southern hemisphere:\tab 327zz where zz is UTM zone number\par 
   US State Plane (NAD27):\tab 267xx/320xx \par 
   US State Plane (NAD83):\tab 269xx/321xx\par 
\par 
\par 
Values:\par 
\par 
   PCS_Adindan_UTM_zone_37N =\tab 20137\par 
   PCS_Adindan_UTM_zone_38N =\tab 20138\par 
   PCS_AGD66_AMG_zone_48 =\tab 20248\par 
   PCS_AGD66_AMG_zone_49 =\tab 20249\par 
   PCS_AGD66_AMG_zone_50 =\tab 20250\par 
   PCS_AGD66_AMG_zone_51 =\tab 20251\par 
   PCS_AGD66_AMG_zone_52 =\tab 20252\par 
   PCS_AGD66_AMG_zone_53 =\tab 20253\par 
   PCS_AGD66_AMG_zone_54 =\tab 20254\par 
   PCS_AGD66_AMG_zone_55 =\tab 20255\par 
   PCS_AGD66_AMG_zone_56 =\tab 20256\par 
   PCS_AGD66_AMG_zone_57 =\tab 20257\par 
   PCS_AGD66_AMG_zone_58 =\tab 20258\par 
   PCS_AGD84_AMG_zone_48 =\tab 20348\par 
   PCS_AGD84_AMG_zone_49 =\tab 20349\par 
   PCS_AGD84_AMG_zone_50 =\tab 20350\par 
   PCS_AGD84_AMG_zone_51 =\tab 20351\par 
   PCS_AGD84_AMG_zone_52 =\tab 20352\par 
   PCS_AGD84_AMG_zone_53 =\tab 20353\par 
   PCS_AGD84_AMG_zone_54 =\tab 20354\par 
   PCS_AGD84_AMG_zone_55 =\tab 20355\par 
   PCS_AGD84_AMG_zone_56 =\tab 20356\par 
   PCS_AGD84_AMG_zone_57 =\tab 20357\par 
   PCS_AGD84_AMG_zone_58 =\tab 20358\par 
   PCS_Ain_el_Abd_UTM_zone_37N =\tab 20437\par 
   PCS_Ain_el_Abd_UTM_zone_38N =\tab 20438\par 
   PCS_Ain_el_Abd_UTM_zone_39N =\tab 20439\par 
   PCS_Ain_el_Abd_Bahrain_Grid =\tab 20499\par 
   PCS_Afgooye_UTM_zone_38N =\tab 20538\par 
   PCS_Afgooye_UTM_zone_39N =\tab 20539\par 
   PCS_Lisbon_Portugese_Grid =\tab 20700\par 
   PCS_Aratu_UTM_zone_22S =\tab 20822\par 
   PCS_Aratu_UTM_zone_23S =\tab 20823\par 
   PCS_Aratu_UTM_zone_24S =\tab 20824\par 
   PCS_Arc_1950_Lo13 =\tab 20973\par 
   PCS_Arc_1950_Lo15 =\tab 20975\par 
   PCS_Arc_1950_Lo17 =\tab 20977\par 
   PCS_Arc_1950_Lo19 =\tab 20979\par 
   PCS_Arc_1950_Lo21 =\tab 20981\par 
   PCS_Arc_1950_Lo23 =\tab 20983\par 
   PCS_Arc_1950_Lo25 =\tab 20985\par 
   PCS_Arc_1950_Lo27 =\tab 20987\par 
   PCS_Arc_1950_Lo29 =\tab 20989\par 
   PCS_Arc_1950_Lo31 =\tab 20991\par 
   PCS_Arc_1950_Lo33 =\tab 20993\par 
   PCS_Arc_1950_Lo35 =\tab 20995\par 
   PCS_Batavia_NEIEZ =\tab 21100\par 
   PCS_Batavia_UTM_zone_48S =\tab 21148\par 
   PCS_Batavia_UTM_zone_49S =\tab 21149\par 
   PCS_Batavia_UTM_zone_50S =\tab 21150\par 
   PCS_Beijing_Gauss_zone_13 =\tab 21413\par 
   PCS_Beijing_Gauss_zone_14 =\tab 21414\par 
   PCS_Beijing_Gauss_zone_15 =\tab 21415\par 
   PCS_Beijing_Gauss_zone_16 =\tab 21416\par 
   PCS_Beijing_Gauss_zone_17 =\tab 21417\par 
   PCS_Beijing_Gauss_zone_18 =\tab 21418\par 
   PCS_Beijing_Gauss_zone_19 =\tab 21419\par 
   PCS_Beijing_Gauss_zone_20 =\tab 21420\par 
   PCS_Beijing_Gauss_zone_21 =\tab 21421\par 
   PCS_Beijing_Gauss_zone_22 =\tab 21422\par 
   PCS_Beijing_Gauss_zone_23 =\tab 21423\par 
   PCS_Beijing_Gauss_13N =\tab 21473\par 
   PCS_Beijing_Gauss_14N =\tab 21474\par 
   PCS_Beijing_Gauss_15N =\tab 21475\par 
   PCS_Beijing_Gauss_16N =\tab 21476\par 
   PCS_Beijing_Gauss_17N =\tab 21477\par 
   PCS_Beijing_Gauss_18N =\tab 21478\par 
   PCS_Beijing_Gauss_19N =\tab 21479\par 
   PCS_Beijing_Gauss_20N =\tab 21480\par 
   PCS_Beijing_Gauss_21N =\tab 21481\par 
   PCS_Beijing_Gauss_22N =\tab 21482\par 
   PCS_Beijing_Gauss_23N =\tab 21483\par 
   PCS_Belge_Lambert_50 =\tab 21500\par 
   PCS_Bern_1898_Swiss_Old =\tab 21790\par 
   PCS_Bogota_UTM_zone_17N =\tab 21817\par 
   PCS_Bogota_UTM_zone_18N =\tab 21818\par 
   PCS_Bogota_Colombia_3W =\tab 21891\par 
   PCS_Bogota_Colombia_Bogota =\tab 21892\par 
   PCS_Bogota_Colombia_3E =\tab 21893\par 
   PCS_Bogota_Colombia_6E =\tab 21894\par 
   PCS_Camacupa_UTM_32S =\tab 22032\par 
   PCS_Camacupa_UTM_33S =\tab 22033\par 
   PCS_C_Inchauspe_Argentina_1 =\tab 22191\par 
   PCS_C_Inchauspe_Argentina_2 =\tab 22192\par 
   PCS_C_Inchauspe_Argentina_3 =\tab 22193\par 
   PCS_C_Inchauspe_Argentina_4 =\tab 22194\par 
   PCS_C_Inchauspe_Argentina_5 =\tab 22195\par 
   PCS_C_Inchauspe_Argentina_6 =\tab 22196\par 
   PCS_C_Inchauspe_Argentina_7 =\tab 22197\par 
   PCS_Carthage_UTM_zone_32N =\tab 22332\par 
   PCS_Carthage_Nord_Tunisie =\tab 22391\par 
   PCS_Carthage_Sud_Tunisie =\tab 22392\par 
   PCS_Corrego_Alegre_UTM_23S =\tab 22523\par 
   PCS_Corrego_Alegre_UTM_24S =\tab 22524\par 
   PCS_Douala_UTM_zone_32N =\tab 22832\par 
   PCS_Egypt_1907_Red_Belt =\tab 22992\par 
   PCS_Egypt_1907_Purple_Belt =\tab 22993\par 
   PCS_Egypt_1907_Ext_Purple =\tab 22994\par 
   PCS_ED50_UTM_zone_28N =\tab 23028\par 
   PCS_ED50_UTM_zone_29N =\tab 23029\par 
   PCS_ED50_UTM_zone_30N =\tab 23030\par 
   PCS_ED50_UTM_zone_31N =\tab 23031\par 
   PCS_ED50_UTM_zone_32N =\tab 23032\par 
   PCS_ED50_UTM_zone_33N =\tab 23033\par 
   PCS_ED50_UTM_zone_34N =\tab 23034\par 
   PCS_ED50_UTM_zone_35N =\tab 23035\par 
   PCS_ED50_UTM_zone_36N =\tab 23036\par 
   PCS_ED50_UTM_zone_37N =\tab 23037\par 
   PCS_ED50_UTM_zone_38N =\tab 23038\par 
   PCS_Fahud_UTM_zone_39N =\tab 23239\par 
   PCS_Fahud_UTM_zone_40N =\tab 23240\par 
   PCS_Garoua_UTM_zone_33N =\tab 23433\par 
   PCS_ID74_UTM_zone_46N =\tab 23846\par 
   PCS_ID74_UTM_zone_47N =\tab 23847\par 
   PCS_ID74_UTM_zone_48N =\tab 23848\par 
   PCS_ID74_UTM_zone_49N =\tab 23849\par 
   PCS_ID74_UTM_zone_50N =\tab 23850\par 
   PCS_ID74_UTM_zone_51N =\tab 23851\par 
   PCS_ID74_UTM_zone_52N =\tab 23852\par 
   PCS_ID74_UTM_zone_53N =\tab 23853\par 
   PCS_ID74_UTM_zone_46S =\tab 23886\par 
   PCS_ID74_UTM_zone_47S =\tab 23887\par 
   PCS_ID74_UTM_zone_48S =\tab 23888\par 
   PCS_ID74_UTM_zone_49S =\tab 23889\par 
   PCS_ID74_UTM_zone_50S =\tab 23890\par 
   PCS_ID74_UTM_zone_51S =\tab 23891\par 
   PCS_ID74_UTM_zone_52S =\tab 23892\par 
   PCS_ID74_UTM_zone_53S =\tab 23893\par 
   PCS_ID74_UTM_zone_54S =\tab 23894\par 
   PCS_Indian_1954_UTM_47N =\tab 23947\par 
   PCS_Indian_1954_UTM_48N =\tab 23948\par 
   PCS_Indian_1975_UTM_47N =\tab 24047\par 
   PCS_Indian_1975_UTM_48N =\tab 24048\par 
   PCS_Jamaica_1875_Old_Grid =\tab 24100\par 
   PCS_JAD69_Jamaica_Grid =\tab 24200\par 
   PCS_Kalianpur_India_0 =\tab 24370\par 
   PCS_Kalianpur_India_I =\tab 24371\par 
   PCS_Kalianpur_India_IIa =\tab 24372\par 
   PCS_Kalianpur_India_IIIa =\tab 24373\par 
   PCS_Kalianpur_India_IVa =\tab 24374\par 
   PCS_Kalianpur_India_IIb =\tab 24382\par 
   PCS_Kalianpur_India_IIIb =\tab 24383\par 
   PCS_Kalianpur_India_IVb =\tab 24384\par 
   PCS_Kertau_Singapore_Grid =\tab 24500\par 
   PCS_Kertau_UTM_zone_47N =\tab 24547\par 
   PCS_Kertau_UTM_zone_48N =\tab 24548\par 
   PCS_La_Canoa_UTM_zone_20N =\tab 24720\par 
   PCS_La_Canoa_UTM_zone_21N =\tab 24721\par 
   PCS_PSAD56_UTM_zone_18N =\tab 24818\par 
   PCS_PSAD56_UTM_zone_19N =\tab 24819\par 
   PCS_PSAD56_UTM_zone_20N =\tab 24820\par 
   PCS_PSAD56_UTM_zone_21N =\tab 24821\par 
   PCS_PSAD56_UTM_zone_17S =\tab 24877\par 
   PCS_PSAD56_UTM_zone_18S =\tab 24878\par 
   PCS_PSAD56_UTM_zone_19S =\tab 24879\par 
   PCS_PSAD56_UTM_zone_20S =\tab 24880\par 
   PCS_PSAD56_Peru_west_zone =\tab 24891\par 
   PCS_PSAD56_Peru_central =\tab 24892\par 
   PCS_PSAD56_Peru_east_zone =\tab 24893\par 
   PCS_Leigon_Ghana_Grid =\tab 25000\par 
   PCS_Lome_UTM_zone_31N =\tab 25231\par 
   PCS_Luzon_Philippines_I =\tab 25391\par 
   PCS_Luzon_Philippines_II =\tab 25392\par 
   PCS_Luzon_Philippines_III =\tab 25393\par 
   PCS_Luzon_Philippines_IV =\tab 25394\par 
   PCS_Luzon_Philippines_V =\tab 25395\par 
   PCS_Makassar_NEIEZ =\tab 25700\par 
   PCS_Malongo_1987_UTM_32S =\tab 25932\par 
   PCS_Merchich_Nord_Maroc =\tab 26191\par 
   PCS_Merchich_Sud_Maroc =\tab 26192\par 
   PCS_Merchich_Sahara =\tab 26193\par 
   PCS_Massawa_UTM_zone_37N =\tab 26237\par 
   PCS_Minna_UTM_zone_31N =\tab 26331\par 
   PCS_Minna_UTM_zone_32N =\tab 26332\par 
   PCS_Minna_Nigeria_West =\tab 26391\par 
   PCS_Minna_Nigeria_Mid_Belt =\tab 26392\par 
   PCS_Minna_Nigeria_East =\tab 26393\par 
   PCS_Mhast_UTM_zone_32S =\tab 26432\par 
   PCS_Monte_Mario_Italy_1 =\tab 26591\par 
   PCS_Monte_Mario_Italy_2 =\tab 26592\par 
   PCS_M_poraloko_UTM_32N =\tab 26632\par 
   PCS_M_poraloko_UTM_32S =\tab 26692\par 
   PCS_NAD27_UTM_zone_3N =\tab 26703\par 
   PCS_NAD27_UTM_zone_4N =\tab 26704\par 
   PCS_NAD27_UTM_zone_5N =\tab 26705\par 
   PCS_NAD27_UTM_zone_6N =\tab 26706\par 
   PCS_NAD27_UTM_zone_7N =\tab 26707\par 
   PCS_NAD27_UTM_zone_8N =\tab 26708\par 
   PCS_NAD27_UTM_zone_9N =\tab 26709\par 
   PCS_NAD27_UTM_zone_10N =\tab 26710\par 
   PCS_NAD27_UTM_zone_11N =\tab 26711\par 
   PCS_NAD27_UTM_zone_12N =\tab 26712\par 
   PCS_NAD27_UTM_zone_13N =\tab 26713\par 
   PCS_NAD27_UTM_zone_14N =\tab 26714\par 
   PCS_NAD27_UTM_zone_15N =\tab 26715\par 
   PCS_NAD27_UTM_zone_16N =\tab 26716\par 
   PCS_NAD27_UTM_zone_17N =\tab 26717\par 
   PCS_NAD27_UTM_zone_18N =\tab 26718\par 
   PCS_NAD27_UTM_zone_19N =\tab 26719\par 
   PCS_NAD27_UTM_zone_20N =\tab 26720\par 
   PCS_NAD27_UTM_zone_21N =\tab 26721\par 
   PCS_NAD27_UTM_zone_22N =\tab 26722\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Alabama_East =\tab 26729\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Alabama_West =\tab 26730\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Alaska_zone_1 =\tab 26731\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Alaska_zone_2 =\tab 26732\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Alaska_zone_3 =\tab 26733\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Alaska_zone_4 =\tab 26734\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Alaska_zone_5 =\tab 26735\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Alaska_zone_6 =\tab 26736\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Alaska_zone_7 =\tab 26737\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Alaska_zone_8 =\tab 26738\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Alaska_zone_9 =\tab 26739\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Alaska_zone_10 =\tab 26740\par 
   PCS_NAD27_California_I =\tab 26741\par 
   PCS_NAD27_California_II =\tab 26742\par 
   PCS_NAD27_California_III =\tab 26743\par 
   PCS_NAD27_California_IV =\tab 26744\par 
   PCS_NAD27_California_V =\tab 26745\par 
   PCS_NAD27_California_VI =\tab 26746\par 
   PCS_NAD27_California_VII =\tab 26747\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Arizona_East =\tab 26748\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Arizona_Central =\tab 26749\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Arizona_West =\tab 26750\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Arkansas_North =\tab 26751\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Arkansas_South =\tab 26752\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Colorado_North =\tab 26753\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Colorado_Central =\tab 26754\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Colorado_South =\tab 26755\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Connecticut =\tab 26756\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Delaware =\tab 26757\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Florida_East =\tab 26758\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Florida_West =\tab 26759\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Florida_North =\tab 26760\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Hawaii_zone_1 =\tab 26761\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Hawaii_zone_2 =\tab 26762\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Hawaii_zone_3 =\tab 26763\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Hawaii_zone_4 =\tab 26764\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Hawaii_zone_5 =\tab 26765\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Georgia_East =\tab 26766\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Georgia_West =\tab 26767\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Idaho_East =\tab 26768\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Idaho_Central =\tab 26769\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Idaho_West =\tab 26770\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Illinois_East =\tab 26771\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Illinois_West =\tab 26772\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Indiana_East =\tab 26773\par 
   PCS_NAD27_BLM_14N_feet =\tab 26774\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Indiana_West =\tab 26774\par 
   PCS_NAD27_BLM_15N_feet =\tab 26775\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Iowa_North =\tab 26775\par 
   PCS_NAD27_BLM_16N_feet =\tab 26776\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Iowa_South =\tab 26776\par 
   PCS_NAD27_BLM_17N_feet =\tab 26777\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Kansas_North =\tab 26777\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Kansas_South =\tab 26778\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Kentucky_North =\tab 26779\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Kentucky_South =\tab 26780\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Louisiana_North =\tab 26781\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Louisiana_South =\tab 26782\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Maine_East =\tab 26783\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Maine_West =\tab 26784\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Maryland =\tab 26785\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Massachusetts =\tab 26786\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Massachusetts_Is =\tab 26787\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Michigan_North =\tab 26788\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Michigan_Central =\tab 26789\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Michigan_South =\tab 26790\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Minnesota_North =\tab 26791\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Minnesota_Cent =\tab 26792\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Minnesota_South =\tab 26793\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Mississippi_East =\tab 26794\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Mississippi_West =\tab 26795\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Missouri_East =\tab 26796\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Missouri_Central =\tab 26797\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Missouri_West =\tab 26798\par 
   PCS_NAD_Michigan_Michigan_East =\tab 26801\par 
   PCS_NAD_Michigan_Michigan_Old_Central =\tab 26802\par 
   PCS_NAD_Michigan_Michigan_West =\tab 26803\par 
   PCS_NAD83_UTM_zone_3N =\tab 26903\par 
   PCS_NAD83_UTM_zone_4N =\tab 26904\par 
   PCS_NAD83_UTM_zone_5N =\tab 26905\par 
   PCS_NAD83_UTM_zone_6N =\tab 26906\par 
   PCS_NAD83_UTM_zone_7N =\tab 26907\par 
   PCS_NAD83_UTM_zone_8N =\tab 26908\par 
   PCS_NAD83_UTM_zone_9N =\tab 26909\par 
   PCS_NAD83_UTM_zone_10N =\tab 26910\par 
   PCS_NAD83_UTM_zone_11N =\tab 26911\par 
   PCS_NAD83_UTM_zone_12N =\tab 26912\par 
   PCS_NAD83_UTM_zone_13N =\tab 26913\par 
   PCS_NAD83_UTM_zone_14N =\tab 26914\par 
   PCS_NAD83_UTM_zone_15N =\tab 26915\par 
   PCS_NAD83_UTM_zone_16N =\tab 26916\par 
   PCS_NAD83_UTM_zone_17N =\tab 26917\par 
   PCS_NAD83_UTM_zone_18N =\tab 26918\par 
   PCS_NAD83_UTM_zone_19N =\tab 26919\par 
   PCS_NAD83_UTM_zone_20N =\tab 26920\par 
   PCS_NAD83_UTM_zone_21N =\tab 26921\par 
   PCS_NAD83_UTM_zone_22N =\tab 26922\par 
   PCS_NAD83_UTM_zone_23N =\tab 26923\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Alabama_East =\tab 26929\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Alabama_West =\tab 26930\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Alaska_zone_1 =\tab 26931\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Alaska_zone_2 =\tab 26932\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Alaska_zone_3 =\tab 26933\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Alaska_zone_4 =\tab 26934\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Alaska_zone_5 =\tab 26935\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Alaska_zone_6 =\tab 26936\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Alaska_zone_7 =\tab 26937\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Alaska_zone_8 =\tab 26938\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Alaska_zone_9 =\tab 26939\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Alaska_zone_10 =\tab 26940\par 
   PCS_NAD83_California_1 =\tab 26941\par 
   PCS_NAD83_California_2 =\tab 26942\par 
   PCS_NAD83_California_3 =\tab 26943\par 
   PCS_NAD83_California_4 =\tab 26944\par 
   PCS_NAD83_California_5 =\tab 26945\par 
   PCS_NAD83_California_6 =\tab 26946\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Arizona_East =\tab 26948\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Arizona_Central =\tab 26949\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Arizona_West =\tab 26950\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Arkansas_North =\tab 26951\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Arkansas_South =\tab 26952\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Colorado_North =\tab 26953\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Colorado_Central =\tab 26954\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Colorado_South =\tab 26955\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Connecticut =\tab 26956\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Delaware =\tab 26957\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Florida_East =\tab 26958\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Florida_West =\tab 26959\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Florida_North =\tab 26960\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Hawaii_zone_1 =\tab 26961\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Hawaii_zone_2 =\tab 26962\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Hawaii_zone_3 =\tab 26963\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Hawaii_zone_4 =\tab 26964\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Hawaii_zone_5 =\tab 26965\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Georgia_East =\tab 26966\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Georgia_West =\tab 26967\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Idaho_East =\tab 26968\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Idaho_Central =\tab 26969\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Idaho_West =\tab 26970\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Illinois_East =\tab 26971\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Illinois_West =\tab 26972\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Indiana_East =\tab 26973\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Indiana_West =\tab 26974\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Iowa_North =\tab 26975\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Iowa_South =\tab 26976\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Kansas_North =\tab 26977\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Kansas_South =\tab 26978\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Kentucky_North =\tab 26979\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Kentucky_South =\tab 26980\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Louisiana_North =\tab 26981\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Louisiana_South =\tab 26982\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Maine_East =\tab 26983\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Maine_West =\tab 26984\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Maryland =\tab 26985\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Massachusetts =\tab 26986\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Massachusetts_Is =\tab 26987\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Michigan_North =\tab 26988\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Michigan_Central =\tab 26989\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Michigan_South =\tab 26990\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Minnesota_North =\tab 26991\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Minnesota_Cent =\tab 26992\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Minnesota_South =\tab 26993\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Mississippi_East =\tab 26994\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Mississippi_West =\tab 26995\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Missouri_East =\tab 26996\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Missouri_Central =\tab 26997\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Missouri_West =\tab 26998\par 
   PCS_Nahrwan_1967_UTM_38N =\tab 27038\par 
   PCS_Nahrwan_1967_UTM_39N =\tab 27039\par 
   PCS_Nahrwan_1967_UTM_40N =\tab 27040\par 
   PCS_Naparima_UTM_20N =\tab 27120\par 
   PCS_GD49_NZ_Map_Grid =\tab 27200\par 
   PCS_GD49_North_Island_Grid =\tab 27291\par 
   PCS_GD49_South_Island_Grid =\tab 27292\par 
   PCS_Datum_73_UTM_zone_29N =\tab 27429\par 
   PCS_ATF_Nord_de_Guerre =\tab 27500\par 
   PCS_NTF_France_I =\tab 27581\par 
   PCS_NTF_France_II =\tab 27582\par 
   PCS_NTF_France_III =\tab 27583\par 
   PCS_NTF_Nord_France =\tab 27591\par 
   PCS_NTF_Centre_France =\tab 27592\par 
   PCS_NTF_Sud_France =\tab 27593\par 
   PCS_British_National_Grid =\tab 27700\par 
   PCS_Point_Noire_UTM_32S =\tab 28232\par 
   PCS_GDA94_MGA_zone_48 =\tab 28348\par 
   PCS_GDA94_MGA_zone_49 =\tab 28349\par 
   PCS_GDA94_MGA_zone_50 =\tab 28350\par 
   PCS_GDA94_MGA_zone_51 =\tab 28351\par 
   PCS_GDA94_MGA_zone_52 =\tab 28352\par 
   PCS_GDA94_MGA_zone_53 =\tab 28353\par 
   PCS_GDA94_MGA_zone_54 =\tab 28354\par 
   PCS_GDA94_MGA_zone_55 =\tab 28355\par 
   PCS_GDA94_MGA_zone_56 =\tab 28356\par 
   PCS_GDA94_MGA_zone_57 =\tab 28357\par 
   PCS_GDA94_MGA_zone_58 =\tab 28358\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_zone_4 =\tab 28404\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_zone_5 =\tab 28405\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_zone_6 =\tab 28406\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_zone_7 =\tab 28407\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_zone_8 =\tab 28408\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_zone_9 =\tab 28409\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_zone_10 =\tab 28410\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_zone_11 =\tab 28411\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_zone_12 =\tab 28412\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_zone_13 =\tab 28413\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_zone_14 =\tab 28414\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_zone_15 =\tab 28415\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_zone_16 =\tab 28416\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_zone_17 =\tab 28417\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_zone_18 =\tab 28418\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_zone_19 =\tab 28419\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_zone_20 =\tab 28420\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_zone_21 =\tab 28421\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_zone_22 =\tab 28422\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_zone_23 =\tab 28423\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_zone_24 =\tab 28424\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_zone_25 =\tab 28425\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_zone_26 =\tab 28426\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_zone_27 =\tab 28427\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_zone_28 =\tab 28428\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_zone_29 =\tab 28429\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_zone_30 =\tab 28430\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_zone_31 =\tab 28431\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_zone_32 =\tab 28432\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_4N =\tab 28464\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_5N =\tab 28465\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_6N =\tab 28466\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_7N =\tab 28467\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_8N =\tab 28468\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_9N =\tab 28469\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_10N =\tab 28470\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_11N =\tab 28471\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_12N =\tab 28472\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_13N =\tab 28473\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_14N =\tab 28474\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_15N =\tab 28475\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_16N =\tab 28476\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_17N =\tab 28477\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_18N =\tab 28478\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_19N =\tab 28479\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_20N =\tab 28480\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_21N =\tab 28481\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_22N =\tab 28482\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_23N =\tab 28483\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_24N =\tab 28484\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_25N =\tab 28485\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_26N =\tab 28486\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_27N =\tab 28487\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_28N =\tab 28488\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_29N =\tab 28489\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_30N =\tab 28490\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_31N =\tab 28491\par 
   PCS_Pulkovo_Gauss_32N =\tab 28492\par 
   PCS_Qatar_National_Grid =\tab 28600\par 
   PCS_RD_Netherlands_Old =\tab 28991\par 
   PCS_RD_Netherlands_New =\tab 28992\par 
   PCS_SAD69_UTM_zone_18N =\tab 29118\par 
   PCS_SAD69_UTM_zone_19N =\tab 29119\par 
   PCS_SAD69_UTM_zone_20N =\tab 29120\par 
   PCS_SAD69_UTM_zone_21N =\tab 29121\par 
   PCS_SAD69_UTM_zone_22N =\tab 29122\par 
   PCS_SAD69_UTM_zone_17S =\tab 29177\par 
   PCS_SAD69_UTM_zone_18S =\tab 29178\par 
   PCS_SAD69_UTM_zone_19S =\tab 29179\par 
   PCS_SAD69_UTM_zone_20S =\tab 29180\par 
   PCS_SAD69_UTM_zone_21S =\tab 29181\par 
   PCS_SAD69_UTM_zone_22S =\tab 29182\par 
   PCS_SAD69_UTM_zone_23S =\tab 29183\par 
   PCS_SAD69_UTM_zone_24S =\tab 29184\par 
   PCS_SAD69_UTM_zone_25S =\tab 29185\par 
   PCS_Sapper_Hill_UTM_20S =\tab 29220\par 
   PCS_Sapper_Hill_UTM_21S =\tab 29221\par 
   PCS_Schwarzeck_UTM_33S =\tab 29333\par 
   PCS_Sudan_UTM_zone_35N =\tab 29635\par 
   PCS_Sudan_UTM_zone_36N =\tab 29636\par 
   PCS_Tananarive_Laborde =\tab 29700\par 
   PCS_Tananarive_UTM_38S =\tab 29738\par 
   PCS_Tananarive_UTM_39S =\tab 29739\par 
   PCS_Timbalai_1948_Borneo =\tab 29800\par 
   PCS_Timbalai_1948_UTM_49N =\tab 29849\par 
   PCS_Timbalai_1948_UTM_50N =\tab 29850\par 
   PCS_TM65_Irish_Nat_Grid =\tab 29900\par 
   PCS_Trinidad_1903_Trinidad =\tab 30200\par 
   PCS_TC_1948_UTM_zone_39N =\tab 30339\par 
   PCS_TC_1948_UTM_zone_40N =\tab 30340\par 
   PCS_Voirol_N_Algerie_ancien =\tab 30491\par 
   PCS_Voirol_S_Algerie_ancien =\tab 30492\par 
   PCS_Voirol_Unifie_N_Algerie =\tab 30591\par 
   PCS_Voirol_Unifie_S_Algerie =\tab 30592\par 
   PCS_Bern_1938_Swiss_New =\tab 30600\par 
   PCS_Nord_Sahara_UTM_29N =\tab 30729\par 
   PCS_Nord_Sahara_UTM_30N =\tab 30730\par 
   PCS_Nord_Sahara_UTM_31N =\tab 30731\par 
   PCS_Nord_Sahara_UTM_32N =\tab 30732\par 
   PCS_Yoff_UTM_zone_28N =\tab 31028\par 
   PCS_Zanderij_UTM_zone_21N =\tab 31121\par 
   PCS_MGI_Austria_West =\tab 31291\par 
   PCS_MGI_Austria_Central =\tab 31292\par 
   PCS_MGI_Austria_East =\tab 31293\par 
   PCS_Belge_Lambert_72 =\tab 31300\par 
   PCS_DHDN_Germany_zone_1 =\tab 31491\par 
   PCS_DHDN_Germany_zone_2 =\tab 31492\par 
   PCS_DHDN_Germany_zone_3 =\tab 31493\par 
   PCS_DHDN_Germany_zone_4 =\tab 31494\par 
   PCS_DHDN_Germany_zone_5 =\tab 31495\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Montana_North =\tab 32001\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Montana_Central =\tab 32002\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Montana_South =\tab 32003\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Nebraska_North =\tab 32005\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Nebraska_South =\tab 32006\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Nevada_East =\tab 32007\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Nevada_Central =\tab 32008\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Nevada_West =\tab 32009\par 
   PCS_NAD27_New_Hampshire =\tab 32010\par 
   PCS_NAD27_New_Jersey =\tab 32011\par 
   PCS_NAD27_New_Mexico_East =\tab 32012\par 
   PCS_NAD27_New_Mexico_Cent =\tab 32013\par 
   PCS_NAD27_New_Mexico_West =\tab 32014\par 
   PCS_NAD27_New_York_East =\tab 32015\par 
   PCS_NAD27_New_York_Central =\tab 32016\par 
   PCS_NAD27_New_York_West =\tab 32017\par 
   PCS_NAD27_New_York_Long_Is =\tab 32018\par 
   PCS_NAD27_North_Carolina =\tab 32019\par 
   PCS_NAD27_North_Dakota_N =\tab 32020\par 
   PCS_NAD27_North_Dakota_S =\tab 32021\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Ohio_North =\tab 32022\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Ohio_South =\tab 32023\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Oklahoma_North =\tab 32024\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Oklahoma_South =\tab 32025\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Oregon_North =\tab 32026\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Oregon_South =\tab 32027\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Pennsylvania_N =\tab 32028\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Pennsylvania_S =\tab 32029\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Rhode_Island =\tab 32030\par 
   PCS_NAD27_South_Carolina_N =\tab 32031\par 
   PCS_NAD27_South_Carolina_S =\tab 32033\par 
   PCS_NAD27_South_Dakota_N =\tab 32034\par 
   PCS_NAD27_South_Dakota_S =\tab 32035\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Tennessee =\tab 32036\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Texas_North =\tab 32037\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Texas_North_Cen =\tab 32038\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Texas_Central =\tab 32039\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Texas_South_Cen =\tab 32040\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Texas_South =\tab 32041\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Utah_North =\tab 32042\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Utah_Central =\tab 32043\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Utah_South =\tab 32044\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Vermont =\tab 32045\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Virginia_North =\tab 32046\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Virginia_South =\tab 32047\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Washington_North =\tab 32048\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Washington_South =\tab 32049\par 
   PCS_NAD27_West_Virginia_N =\tab 32050\par 
   PCS_NAD27_West_Virginia_S =\tab 32051\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Wisconsin_North =\tab 32052\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Wisconsin_Cen =\tab 32053\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Wisconsin_South =\tab 32054\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Wyoming_East =\tab 32055\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Wyoming_E_Cen =\tab 32056\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Wyoming_W_Cen =\tab 32057\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Wyoming_West =\tab 32058\par 
   PCS_NAD27_Puerto_Rico =\tab 32059\par 
   PCS_NAD27_St_Croix =\tab 32060\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Montana =\tab 32100\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Nebraska =\tab 32104\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Nevada_East =\tab 32107\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Nevada_Central =\tab 32108\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Nevada_West =\tab 32109\par 
   PCS_NAD83_New_Hampshire =\tab 32110\par 
   PCS_NAD83_New_Jersey =\tab 32111\par 
   PCS_NAD83_New_Mexico_East =\tab 32112\par 
   PCS_NAD83_New_Mexico_Cent =\tab 32113\par 
   PCS_NAD83_New_Mexico_West =\tab 32114\par 
   PCS_NAD83_New_York_East =\tab 32115\par 
   PCS_NAD83_New_York_Central =\tab 32116\par 
   PCS_NAD83_New_York_West =\tab 32117\par 
   PCS_NAD83_New_York_Long_Is =\tab 32118\par 
   PCS_NAD83_North_Carolina =\tab 32119\par 
   PCS_NAD83_North_Dakota_N =\tab 32120\par 
   PCS_NAD83_North_Dakota_S =\tab 32121\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Ohio_North =\tab 32122\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Ohio_South =\tab 32123\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Oklahoma_North =\tab 32124\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Oklahoma_South =\tab 32125\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Oregon_North =\tab 32126\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Oregon_South =\tab 32127\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Pennsylvania_N =\tab 32128\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Pennsylvania_S =\tab 32129\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Rhode_Island =\tab 32130\par 
   PCS_NAD83_South_Carolina =\tab 32133\par 
   PCS_NAD83_South_Dakota_N =\tab 32134\par 
   PCS_NAD83_South_Dakota_S =\tab 32135\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Tennessee =\tab 32136\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Texas_North =\tab 32137\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Texas_North_Cen =\tab 32138\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Texas_Central =\tab 32139\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Texas_South_Cen =\tab 32140\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Texas_South =\tab 32141\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Utah_North =\tab 32142\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Utah_Central =\tab 32143\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Utah_South =\tab 32144\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Vermont =\tab 32145\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Virginia_North =\tab 32146\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Virginia_South =\tab 32147\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Washington_North =\tab 32148\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Washington_South =\tab 32149\par 
   PCS_NAD83_West_Virginia_N =\tab 32150\par 
   PCS_NAD83_West_Virginia_S =\tab 32151\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Wisconsin_North =\tab 32152\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Wisconsin_Cen =\tab 32153\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Wisconsin_South =\tab 32154\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Wyoming_East =\tab 32155\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Wyoming_E_Cen =\tab 32156\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Wyoming_W_Cen =\tab 32157\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Wyoming_West =\tab 32158\par 
   PCS_NAD83_Puerto_Rico_Virgin_Is =\tab 32161\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_1N =\tab 32201\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_2N =\tab 32202\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_3N =\tab 32203\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_4N =\tab 32204\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_5N =\tab 32205\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_6N =\tab 32206\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_7N =\tab 32207\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_8N =\tab 32208\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_9N =\tab 32209\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_10N =\tab 32210\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_11N =\tab 32211\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_12N =\tab 32212\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_13N =\tab 32213\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_14N =\tab 32214\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_15N =\tab 32215\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_16N =\tab 32216\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_17N =\tab 32217\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_18N =\tab 32218\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_19N =\tab 32219\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_20N =\tab 32220\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_21N =\tab 32221\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_22N =\tab 32222\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_23N =\tab 32223\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_24N =\tab 32224\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_25N =\tab 32225\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_26N =\tab 32226\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_27N =\tab 32227\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_28N =\tab 32228\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_29N =\tab 32229\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_30N =\tab 32230\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_31N =\tab 32231\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_32N =\tab 32232\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_33N =\tab 32233\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_34N =\tab 32234\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_35N =\tab 32235\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_36N =\tab 32236\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_37N =\tab 32237\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_38N =\tab 32238\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_39N =\tab 32239\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_40N =\tab 32240\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_41N =\tab 32241\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_42N =\tab 32242\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_43N =\tab 32243\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_44N =\tab 32244\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_45N =\tab 32245\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_46N =\tab 32246\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_47N =\tab 32247\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_48N =\tab 32248\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_49N =\tab 32249\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_50N =\tab 32250\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_51N =\tab 32251\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_52N =\tab 32252\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_53N =\tab 32253\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_54N =\tab 32254\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_55N =\tab 32255\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_56N =\tab 32256\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_57N =\tab 32257\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_58N =\tab 32258\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_59N =\tab 32259\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_60N =\tab 32260\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_1S =\tab 32301\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_2S =\tab 32302\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_3S =\tab 32303\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_4S =\tab 32304\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_5S =\tab 32305\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_6S =\tab 32306\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_7S =\tab 32307\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_8S =\tab 32308\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_9S =\tab 32309\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_10S =\tab 32310\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_11S =\tab 32311\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_12S =\tab 32312\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_13S =\tab 32313\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_14S =\tab 32314\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_15S =\tab 32315\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_16S =\tab 32316\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_17S =\tab 32317\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_18S =\tab 32318\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_19S =\tab 32319\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_20S =\tab 32320\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_21S =\tab 32321\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_22S =\tab 32322\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_23S =\tab 32323\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_24S =\tab 32324\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_25S =\tab 32325\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_26S =\tab 32326\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_27S =\tab 32327\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_28S =\tab 32328\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_29S =\tab 32329\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_30S =\tab 32330\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_31S =\tab 32331\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_32S =\tab 32332\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_33S =\tab 32333\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_34S =\tab 32334\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_35S =\tab 32335\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_36S =\tab 32336\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_37S =\tab 32337\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_38S =\tab 32338\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_39S =\tab 32339\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_40S =\tab 32340\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_41S =\tab 32341\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_42S =\tab 32342\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_43S =\tab 32343\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_44S =\tab 32344\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_45S =\tab 32345\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_46S =\tab 32346\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_47S =\tab 32347\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_48S =\tab 32348\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_49S =\tab 32349\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_50S =\tab 32350\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_51S =\tab 32351\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_52S =\tab 32352\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_53S =\tab 32353\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_54S =\tab 32354\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_55S =\tab 32355\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_56S =\tab 32356\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_57S =\tab 32357\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_58S =\tab 32358\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_59S =\tab 32359\par 
   PCS_WGS72_UTM_zone_60S =\tab 32360\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_1N =\tab 32401\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_2N =\tab 32402\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_3N =\tab 32403\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_4N =\tab 32404\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_5N =\tab 32405\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_6N =\tab 32406\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_7N =\tab 32407\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_8N =\tab 32408\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_9N =\tab 32409\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_10N =\tab 32410\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_11N =\tab 32411\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_12N =\tab 32412\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_13N =\tab 32413\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_14N =\tab 32414\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_15N =\tab 32415\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_16N =\tab 32416\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_17N =\tab 32417\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_18N =\tab 32418\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_19N =\tab 32419\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_20N =\tab 32420\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_21N =\tab 32421\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_22N =\tab 32422\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_23N =\tab 32423\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_24N =\tab 32424\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_25N =\tab 32425\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_26N =\tab 32426\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_27N =\tab 32427\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_28N =\tab 32428\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_29N =\tab 32429\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_30N =\tab 32430\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_31N =\tab 32431\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_32N =\tab 32432\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_33N =\tab 32433\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_34N =\tab 32434\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_35N =\tab 32435\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_36N =\tab 32436\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_37N =\tab 32437\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_38N =\tab 32438\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_39N =\tab 32439\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_40N =\tab 32440\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_41N =\tab 32441\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_42N =\tab 32442\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_43N =\tab 32443\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_44N =\tab 32444\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_45N =\tab 32445\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_46N =\tab 32446\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_47N =\tab 32447\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_48N =\tab 32448\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_49N =\tab 32449\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_50N =\tab 32450\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_51N =\tab 32451\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_52N =\tab 32452\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_53N =\tab 32453\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_54N =\tab 32454\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_55N =\tab 32455\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_56N =\tab 32456\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_57N =\tab 32457\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_58N =\tab 32458\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_59N =\tab 32459\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_60N =\tab 32460\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_1S =\tab 32501\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_2S =\tab 32502\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_3S =\tab 32503\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_4S =\tab 32504\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_5S =\tab 32505\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_6S =\tab 32506\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_7S =\tab 32507\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_8S =\tab 32508\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_9S =\tab 32509\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_10S =\tab 32510\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_11S =\tab 32511\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_12S =\tab 32512\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_13S =\tab 32513\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_14S =\tab 32514\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_15S =\tab 32515\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_16S =\tab 32516\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_17S =\tab 32517\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_18S =\tab 32518\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_19S =\tab 32519\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_20S =\tab 32520\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_21S =\tab 32521\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_22S =\tab 32522\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_23S =\tab 32523\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_24S =\tab 32524\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_25S =\tab 32525\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_26S =\tab 32526\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_27S =\tab 32527\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_28S =\tab 32528\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_29S =\tab 32529\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_30S =\tab 32530\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_31S =\tab 32531\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_32S =\tab 32532\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_33S =\tab 32533\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_34S =\tab 32534\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_35S =\tab 32535\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_36S =\tab 32536\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_37S =\tab 32537\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_38S =\tab 32538\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_39S =\tab 32539\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_40S =\tab 32540\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_41S =\tab 32541\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_42S =\tab 32542\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_43S =\tab 32543\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_44S =\tab 32544\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_45S =\tab 32545\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_46S =\tab 32546\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_47S =\tab 32547\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_48S =\tab 32548\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_49S =\tab 32549\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_50S =\tab 32550\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_51S =\tab 32551\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_52S =\tab 32552\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_53S =\tab 32553\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_54S =\tab 32554\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_55S =\tab 32555\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_56S =\tab 32556\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_57S =\tab 32557\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_58S =\tab 32558\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_59S =\tab 32559\par 
   PCS_WGS72BE_UTM_zone_60S =\tab 32560\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_1N =\tab 32601\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_2N =\tab 32602\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_3N =\tab 32603\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_4N =\tab 32604\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_5N =\tab 32605\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_6N =\tab 32606\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_7N =\tab 32607\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_8N =\tab 32608\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_9N =\tab 32609\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_10N =\tab 32610\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_11N =\tab 32611\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_12N =\tab 32612\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_13N =\tab 32613\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_14N =\tab 32614\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_15N =\tab 32615\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_16N =\tab 32616\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_17N =\tab 32617\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_18N =\tab 32618\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_19N =\tab 32619\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_20N =\tab 32620\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_21N =\tab 32621\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_22N =\tab 32622\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_23N =\tab 32623\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_24N =\tab 32624\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_25N =\tab 32625\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_26N =\tab 32626\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_27N =\tab 32627\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_28N =\tab 32628\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_29N =\tab 32629\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_30N =\tab 32630\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_31N =\tab 32631\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_32N =\tab 32632\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_33N =\tab 32633\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_34N =\tab 32634\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_35N =\tab 32635\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_36N =\tab 32636\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_37N =\tab 32637\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_38N =\tab 32638\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_39N =\tab 32639\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_40N =\tab 32640\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_41N =\tab 32641\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_42N =\tab 32642\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_43N =\tab 32643\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_44N =\tab 32644\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_45N =\tab 32645\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_46N =\tab 32646\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_47N =\tab 32647\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_48N =\tab 32648\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_49N =\tab 32649\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_50N =\tab 32650\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_51N =\tab 32651\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_52N =\tab 32652\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_53N =\tab 32653\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_54N =\tab 32654\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_55N =\tab 32655\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_56N =\tab 32656\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_57N =\tab 32657\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_58N =\tab 32658\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_59N =\tab 32659\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_60N =\tab 32660\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_1S =\tab 32701\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_2S =\tab 32702\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_3S =\tab 32703\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_4S =\tab 32704\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_5S =\tab 32705\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_6S =\tab 32706\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_7S =\tab 32707\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_8S =\tab 32708\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_9S =\tab 32709\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_10S =\tab 32710\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_11S =\tab 32711\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_12S =\tab 32712\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_13S =\tab 32713\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_14S =\tab 32714\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_15S =\tab 32715\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_16S =\tab 32716\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_17S =\tab 32717\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_18S =\tab 32718\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_19S =\tab 32719\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_20S =\tab 32720\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_21S =\tab 32721\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_22S =\tab 32722\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_23S =\tab 32723\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_24S =\tab 32724\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_25S =\tab 32725\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_26S =\tab 32726\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_27S =\tab 32727\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_28S =\tab 32728\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_29S =\tab 32729\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_30S =\tab 32730\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_31S =\tab 32731\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_32S =\tab 32732\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_33S =\tab 32733\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_34S =\tab 32734\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_35S =\tab 32735\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_36S =\tab 32736\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_37S =\tab 32737\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_38S =\tab 32738\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_39S =\tab 32739\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_40S =\tab 32740\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_41S =\tab 32741\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_42S =\tab 32742\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_43S =\tab 32743\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_44S =\tab 32744\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_45S =\tab 32745\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_46S =\tab 32746\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_47S =\tab 32747\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_48S =\tab 32748\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_49S =\tab 32749\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_50S =\tab 32750\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_51S =\tab 32751\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_52S =\tab 32752\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_53S =\tab 32753\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_54S =\tab 32754\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_55S =\tab 32755\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_56S =\tab 32756\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_57S =\tab 32757\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_58S =\tab 32758\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_59S =\tab 32759\par 
   PCS_WGS84_UTM_zone_60S =\tab 32760\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s251\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 6.3.3.2 Projection Codes\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 Note: Projections do not include GCS or PCS definitions. If possible, use the PCS code for standard projected coordinate systems, and use this code only if nonstandard datums are required.\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
Ranges:\par 
\par 
   0 = undefined\par 
   [    1,  9999] = Obsolete EPSG/POSC Projection codes\par 
   [10000, 19999] = EPSG/POSC Projection codes\par 
   32767          = user-defined\par 
   [32768, 65535] = Private User Implementations\par 
\par 
Special Ranges:\par 
\par 
  US State Plane Format:    1sszz\par 
          where ss is USC&GS State code\par 
          zz is USC&GS zone code for NAD27 zones\par 
          zz is (USC&GS zone code + 30) for NAD83 zones\par 
\par 
  Larger zoned systems (16000-17999)\tab \par 
   UTM (North)\tab Format:  160zz\tab \par 
   UTM (South)\tab Format:  161zz\tab \tab \par 
   zoned Universal Gauss-Kruger\tab Format:  162zz\tab \par 
   Universal Gauss-Kruger (unzoned)\tab Format:  163zz\par 
   Australian Map Grid\tab Format:  174zz\tab \par 
   Southern African STM\tab Format:  175zz\tab \par 
\par 
  Smaller zoned systems:\tab Format:  18ssz\par 
\tab      where ss is sequential system number\tab \par 
\tab      z is zone code\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \par 
\tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \par 
  Single zone projections\tab Format:   199ss\par 
\tab      where ss is sequential system number\tab \par 
\par 
Values:\par 
\par 
   Proj_Alabama_CS27_East =\tab 10101\par 
   Proj_Alabama_CS27_West =\tab 10102\par 
   Proj_Alabama_CS83_East =\tab 10131\par 
   Proj_Alabama_CS83_West =\tab 10132\par 
   Proj_Arizona_Coordinate_System_east =\tab 10201\par 
   Proj_Arizona_Coordinate_System_Central =\tab 10202\par 
   Proj_Arizona_Coordinate_System_west =\tab 10203\par 
   Proj_Arizona_CS83_east =\tab 10231\par 
   Proj_Arizona_CS83_Central =\tab 10232\par 
   Proj_Arizona_CS83_west =\tab 10233\par 
   Proj_Arkansas_CS27_North =\tab 10301\par 
   Proj_Arkansas_CS27_South =\tab 10302\par 
   Proj_Arkansas_CS83_North =\tab 10331\par 
   Proj_Arkansas_CS83_South =\tab 10332\par 
   Proj_California_CS27_I =\tab 10401\par 
   Proj_California_CS27_II =\tab 10402\par 
   Proj_California_CS27_III =\tab 10403\par 
   Proj_California_CS27_IV =\tab 10404\par 
   Proj_California_CS27_V =\tab 10405\par 
   Proj_California_CS27_VI =\tab 10406\par 
   Proj_California_CS27_VII =\tab 10407\par 
   Proj_California_CS83_1 =\tab 10431\par 
   Proj_California_CS83_2 =\tab 10432\par 
   Proj_California_CS83_3 =\tab 10433\par 
   Proj_California_CS83_4 =\tab 10434\par 
   Proj_California_CS83_5 =\tab 10435\par 
   Proj_California_CS83_6 =\tab 10436\par 
   Proj_Colorado_CS27_North =\tab 10501\par 
   Proj_Colorado_CS27_Central =\tab 10502\par 
   Proj_Colorado_CS27_South =\tab 10503\par 
   Proj_Colorado_CS83_North =\tab 10531\par 
   Proj_Colorado_CS83_Central =\tab 10532\par 
   Proj_Colorado_CS83_South =\tab 10533\par 
   Proj_Connecticut_CS27 =\tab 10600\par 
   Proj_Connecticut_CS83 =\tab 10630\par 
   Proj_Delaware_CS27 =\tab 10700\par 
   Proj_Delaware_CS83 =\tab 10730\par 
   Proj_Florida_CS27_East =\tab 10901\par 
   Proj_Florida_CS27_West =\tab 10902\par 
   Proj_Florida_CS27_North =\tab 10903\par 
   Proj_Florida_CS83_East =\tab 10931\par 
   Proj_Florida_CS83_West =\tab 10932\par 
   Proj_Florida_CS83_North =\tab 10933\par 
   Proj_Georgia_CS27_East =\tab 11001\par 
   Proj_Georgia_CS27_West =\tab 11002\par 
   Proj_Georgia_CS83_East =\tab 11031\par 
   Proj_Georgia_CS83_West =\tab 11032\par 
   Proj_Idaho_CS27_East =\tab 11101\par 
   Proj_Idaho_CS27_Central =\tab 11102\par 
   Proj_Idaho_CS27_West =\tab 11103\par 
   Proj_Idaho_CS83_East =\tab 11131\par 
   Proj_Idaho_CS83_Central =\tab 11132\par 
   Proj_Idaho_CS83_West =\tab 11133\par 
   Proj_Illinois_CS27_East =\tab 11201\par 
   Proj_Illinois_CS27_West =\tab 11202\par 
   Proj_Illinois_CS83_East =\tab 11231\par 
   Proj_Illinois_CS83_West =\tab 11232\par 
   Proj_Indiana_CS27_East =\tab 11301\par 
   Proj_Indiana_CS27_West =\tab 11302\par 
   Proj_Indiana_CS83_East =\tab 11331\par 
   Proj_Indiana_CS83_West =\tab 11332\par 
   Proj_Iowa_CS27_North =\tab 11401\par 
   Proj_Iowa_CS27_South =\tab 11402\par 
   Proj_Iowa_CS83_North =\tab 11431\par 
   Proj_Iowa_CS83_South =\tab 11432\par 
   Proj_Kansas_CS27_North =\tab 11501\par 
   Proj_Kansas_CS27_South =\tab 11502\par 
   Proj_Kansas_CS83_North =\tab 11531\par 
   Proj_Kansas_CS83_South =\tab 11532\par 
   Proj_Kentucky_CS27_North =\tab 11601\par 
   Proj_Kentucky_CS27_South =\tab 11602\par 
   Proj_Kentucky_CS83_North =\tab 11631\par 
   Proj_Kentucky_CS83_South =\tab 11632\par 
   Proj_Louisiana_CS27_North =\tab 11701\par 
   Proj_Louisiana_CS27_South =\tab 11702\par 
   Proj_Louisiana_CS83_North =\tab 11731\par 
   Proj_Louisiana_CS83_South =\tab 11732\par 
   Proj_Maine_CS27_East =\tab 11801\par 
   Proj_Maine_CS27_West =\tab 11802\par 
   Proj_Maine_CS83_East =\tab 11831\par 
   Proj_Maine_CS83_West =\tab 11832\par 
   Proj_Maryland_CS27 =\tab 11900\par 
   Proj_Maryland_CS83 =\tab 11930\par 
   Proj_Massachusetts_CS27_Mainland =\tab 12001\par 
   Proj_Massachusetts_CS27_Island =\tab 12002\par 
   Proj_Massachusetts_CS83_Mainland =\tab 12031\par 
   Proj_Massachusetts_CS83_Island =\tab 12032\par 
   Proj_Michigan_State_Plane_East =\tab 12101\par 
   Proj_Michigan_State_Plane_Old_Central =\tab 12102\par 
   Proj_Michigan_State_Plane_West =\tab 12103\par 
   Proj_Michigan_CS27_North =\tab 12111\par 
   Proj_Michigan_CS27_Central =\tab 12112\par 
   Proj_Michigan_CS27_South =\tab 12113\par 
   Proj_Michigan_CS83_North =\tab 12141\par 
   Proj_Michigan_CS83_Central =\tab 12142\par 
   Proj_Michigan_CS83_South =\tab 12143\par 
   Proj_Minnesota_CS27_North =\tab 12201\par 
   Proj_Minnesota_CS27_Central =\tab 12202\par 
   Proj_Minnesota_CS27_South =\tab 12203\par 
   Proj_Minnesota_CS83_North =\tab 12231\par 
   Proj_Minnesota_CS83_Central =\tab 12232\par 
   Proj_Minnesota_CS83_South =\tab 12233\par 
   Proj_Mississippi_CS27_East =\tab 12301\par 
   Proj_Mississippi_CS27_West =\tab 12302\par 
   Proj_Mississippi_CS83_East =\tab 12331\par 
   Proj_Mississippi_CS83_West =\tab 12332\par 
   Proj_Missouri_CS27_East =\tab 12401\par 
   Proj_Missouri_CS27_Central =\tab 12402\par 
   Proj_Missouri_CS27_West =\tab 12403\par 
   Proj_Missouri_CS83_East =\tab 12431\par 
   Proj_Missouri_CS83_Central =\tab 12432\par 
   Proj_Missouri_CS83_West =\tab 12433\par 
   Proj_Montana_CS27_North =\tab 12501\par 
   Proj_Montana_CS27_Central =\tab 12502\par 
   Proj_Montana_CS27_South =\tab 12503\par 
   Proj_Montana_CS83 =\tab 12530\par 
   Proj_Nebraska_CS27_North =\tab 12601\par 
   Proj_Nebraska_CS27_South =\tab 12602\par 
   Proj_Nebraska_CS83 =\tab 12630\par 
   Proj_Nevada_CS27_East =\tab 12701\par 
   Proj_Nevada_CS27_Central =\tab 12702\par 
   Proj_Nevada_CS27_West =\tab 12703\par 
   Proj_Nevada_CS83_East =\tab 12731\par 
   Proj_Nevada_CS83_Central =\tab 12732\par 
   Proj_Nevada_CS83_West =\tab 12733\par 
   Proj_New_Hampshire_CS27 =\tab 12800\par 
   Proj_New_Hampshire_CS83 =\tab 12830\par 
   Proj_New_Jersey_CS27 =\tab 12900\par 
   Proj_New_Jersey_CS83 =\tab 12930\par 
   Proj_New_Mexico_CS27_East =\tab 13001\par 
   Proj_New_Mexico_CS27_Central =\tab 13002\par 
   Proj_New_Mexico_CS27_West =\tab 13003\par 
   Proj_New_Mexico_CS83_East =\tab 13031\par 
   Proj_New_Mexico_CS83_Central =\tab 13032\par 
   Proj_New_Mexico_CS83_West =\tab 13033\par 
   Proj_New_York_CS27_East =\tab 13101\par 
   Proj_New_York_CS27_Central =\tab 13102\par 
   Proj_New_York_CS27_West =\tab 13103\par 
   Proj_New_York_CS27_Long_Island =\tab 13104\par 
   Proj_New_York_CS83_East =\tab 13131\par 
   Proj_New_York_CS83_Central =\tab 13132\par 
   Proj_New_York_CS83_West =\tab 13133\par 
   Proj_New_York_CS83_Long_Island =\tab 13134\par 
   Proj_North_Carolina_CS27 =\tab 13200\par 
   Proj_North_Carolina_CS83 =\tab 13230\par 
   Proj_North_Dakota_CS27_North =\tab 13301\par 
   Proj_North_Dakota_CS27_South =\tab 13302\par 
   Proj_North_Dakota_CS83_North =\tab 13331\par 
   Proj_North_Dakota_CS83_South =\tab 13332\par 
   Proj_Ohio_CS27_North =\tab 13401\par 
   Proj_Ohio_CS27_South =\tab 13402\par 
   Proj_Ohio_CS83_North =\tab 13431\par 
   Proj_Ohio_CS83_South =\tab 13432\par 
   Proj_Oklahoma_CS27_North =\tab 13501\par 
   Proj_Oklahoma_CS27_South =\tab 13502\par 
   Proj_Oklahoma_CS83_North =\tab 13531\par 
   Proj_Oklahoma_CS83_South =\tab 13532\par 
   Proj_Oregon_CS27_North =\tab 13601\par 
   Proj_Oregon_CS27_South =\tab 13602\par 
   Proj_Oregon_CS83_North =\tab 13631\par 
   Proj_Oregon_CS83_South =\tab 13632\par 
   Proj_Pennsylvania_CS27_North =\tab 13701\par 
   Proj_Pennsylvania_CS27_South =\tab 13702\par 
   Proj_Pennsylvania_CS83_North =\tab 13731\par 
   Proj_Pennsylvania_CS83_South =\tab 13732\par 
   Proj_Rhode_Island_CS27 =\tab 13800\par 
   Proj_Rhode_Island_CS83 =\tab 13830\par 
   Proj_South_Carolina_CS27_North =\tab 13901\par 
   Proj_South_Carolina_CS27_South =\tab 13902\par 
   Proj_South_Carolina_CS83 =\tab 13930\par 
   Proj_South_Dakota_CS27_North =\tab 14001\par 
   Proj_South_Dakota_CS27_South =\tab 14002\par 
   Proj_South_Dakota_CS83_North =\tab 14031\par 
   Proj_South_Dakota_CS83_South =\tab 14032\par 
   Proj_Tennessee_CS27 =\tab 14100\par 
   Proj_Tennessee_CS83 =\tab 14130\par 
   Proj_Texas_CS27_North =\tab 14201\par 
   Proj_Texas_CS27_North_Central =\tab 14202\par 
   Proj_Texas_CS27_Central =\tab 14203\par 
   Proj_Texas_CS27_South_Central =\tab 14204\par 
   Proj_Texas_CS27_South =\tab 14205\par 
   Proj_Texas_CS83_North =\tab 14231\par 
   Proj_Texas_CS83_North_Central =\tab 14232\par 
   Proj_Texas_CS83_Central =\tab 14233\par 
   Proj_Texas_CS83_South_Central =\tab 14234\par 
   Proj_Texas_CS83_South =\tab 14235\par 
   Proj_Utah_CS27_North =\tab 14301\par 
   Proj_Utah_CS27_Central =\tab 14302\par 
   Proj_Utah_CS27_South =\tab 14303\par 
   Proj_Utah_CS83_North =\tab 14331\par 
   Proj_Utah_CS83_Central =\tab 14332\par 
   Proj_Utah_CS83_South =\tab 14333\par 
   Proj_Vermont_CS27 =\tab 14400\par 
   Proj_Vermont_CS83 =\tab 14430\par 
   Proj_Virginia_CS27_North =\tab 14501\par 
   Proj_Virginia_CS27_South =\tab 14502\par 
   Proj_Virginia_CS83_North =\tab 14531\par 
   Proj_Virginia_CS83_South =\tab 14532\par 
   Proj_Washington_CS27_North =\tab 14601\par 
   Proj_Washington_CS27_South =\tab 14602\par 
   Proj_Washington_CS83_North =\tab 14631\par 
   Proj_Washington_CS83_South =\tab 14632\par 
   Proj_West_Virginia_CS27_North =\tab 14701\par 
   Proj_West_Virginia_CS27_South =\tab 14702\par 
   Proj_West_Virginia_CS83_North =\tab 14731\par 
   Proj_West_Virginia_CS83_South =\tab 14732\par 
   Proj_Wisconsin_CS27_North =\tab 14801\par 
   Proj_Wisconsin_CS27_Central =\tab 14802\par 
   Proj_Wisconsin_CS27_South =\tab 14803\par 
   Proj_Wisconsin_CS83_North =\tab 14831\par 
   Proj_Wisconsin_CS83_Central =\tab 14832\par 
   Proj_Wisconsin_CS83_South =\tab 14833\par 
   Proj_Wyoming_CS27_East =\tab 14901\par 
   Proj_Wyoming_CS27_East_Central =\tab 14902\par 
   Proj_Wyoming_CS27_West_Central =\tab 14903\par 
   Proj_Wyoming_CS27_West =\tab 14904\par 
   Proj_Wyoming_CS83_East =\tab 14931\par 
   Proj_Wyoming_CS83_East_Central =\tab 14932\par 
   Proj_Wyoming_CS83_West_Central =\tab 14933\par 
   Proj_Wyoming_CS83_West =\tab 14934\par 
   Proj_Alaska_CS27_1 =\tab 15001\par 
   Proj_Alaska_CS27_2 =\tab 15002\par 
   Proj_Alaska_CS27_3 =\tab 15003\par 
   Proj_Alaska_CS27_4 =\tab 15004\par 
   Proj_Alaska_CS27_5 =\tab 15005\par 
   Proj_Alaska_CS27_6 =\tab 15006\par 
   Proj_Alaska_CS27_7 =\tab 15007\par 
   Proj_Alaska_CS27_8 =\tab 15008\par 
   Proj_Alaska_CS27_9 =\tab 15009\par 
   Proj_Alaska_CS27_10 =\tab 15010\par 
   Proj_Alaska_CS83_1 =\tab 15031\par 
   Proj_Alaska_CS83_2 =\tab 15032\par 
   Proj_Alaska_CS83_3 =\tab 15033\par 
   Proj_Alaska_CS83_4 =\tab 15034\par 
   Proj_Alaska_CS83_5 =\tab 15035\par 
   Proj_Alaska_CS83_6 =\tab 15036\par 
   Proj_Alaska_CS83_7 =\tab 15037\par 
   Proj_Alaska_CS83_8 =\tab 15038\par 
   Proj_Alaska_CS83_9 =\tab 15039\par 
   Proj_Alaska_CS83_10 =\tab 15040\par 
   Proj_Hawaii_CS27_1 =\tab 15101\par 
   Proj_Hawaii_CS27_2 =\tab 15102\par 
   Proj_Hawaii_CS27_3 =\tab 15103\par 
   Proj_Hawaii_CS27_4 =\tab 15104\par 
   Proj_Hawaii_CS27_5 =\tab 15105\par 
   Proj_Hawaii_CS83_1 =\tab 15131\par 
   Proj_Hawaii_CS83_2 =\tab 15132\par 
   Proj_Hawaii_CS83_3 =\tab 15133\par 
   Proj_Hawaii_CS83_4 =\tab 15134\par 
   Proj_Hawaii_CS83_5 =\tab 15135\par 
   Proj_Puerto_Rico_CS27 =\tab 15201\par 
   Proj_St_Croix =\tab 15202\par 
   Proj_Puerto_Rico_Virgin_Is =\tab 15230\par 
   Proj_BLM_14N_feet =\tab 15914\par 
   Proj_BLM_15N_feet =\tab 15915\par 
   Proj_BLM_16N_feet =\tab 15916\par 
   Proj_BLM_17N_feet =\tab 15917\par 
   Proj_Map_Grid_of_Australia_48 =\tab 17348\par 
   Proj_Map_Grid_of_Australia_49 =\tab 17349\par 
   Proj_Map_Grid_of_Australia_50 =\tab 17350\par 
   Proj_Map_Grid_of_Australia_51 =\tab 17351\par 
   Proj_Map_Grid_of_Australia_52 =\tab 17352\par 
   Proj_Map_Grid_of_Australia_53 =\tab 17353\par 
   Proj_Map_Grid_of_Australia_54 =\tab 17354\par 
   Proj_Map_Grid_of_Australia_55 =\tab 17355\par 
   Proj_Map_Grid_of_Australia_56 =\tab 17356\par 
   Proj_Map_Grid_of_Australia_57 =\tab 17357\par 
   Proj_Map_Grid_of_Australia_58 =\tab 17358\par 
   Proj_Australian_Map_Grid_48 =\tab 17448\par 
   Proj_Australian_Map_Grid_49 =\tab 17449\par 
   Proj_Australian_Map_Grid_50 =\tab 17450\par 
   Proj_Australian_Map_Grid_51 =\tab 17451\par 
   Proj_Australian_Map_Grid_52 =\tab 17452\par 
   Proj_Australian_Map_Grid_53 =\tab 17453\par 
   Proj_Australian_Map_Grid_54 =\tab 17454\par 
   Proj_Australian_Map_Grid_55 =\tab 17455\par 
   Proj_Australian_Map_Grid_56 =\tab 17456\par 
   Proj_Australian_Map_Grid_57 =\tab 17457\par 
   Proj_Australian_Map_Grid_58 =\tab 17458\par 
   Proj_Argentina_1 =\tab 18031\par 
   Proj_Argentina_2 =\tab 18032\par 
   Proj_Argentina_3 =\tab 18033\par 
   Proj_Argentina_4 =\tab 18034\par 
   Proj_Argentina_5 =\tab 18035\par 
   Proj_Argentina_6 =\tab 18036\par 
   Proj_Argentina_7 =\tab 18037\par 
   Proj_Colombia_3W =\tab 18051\par 
   Proj_Colombia_Bogota =\tab 18052\par 
   Proj_Colombia_3E =\tab 18053\par 
   Proj_Colombia_6E =\tab 18054\par 
   Proj_Egypt_Red_Belt =\tab 18072\par 
   Proj_Egypt_Purple_Belt =\tab 18073\par 
   Proj_Extended_Purple_Belt =\tab 18074\par 
   Proj_New_Zealand_North_Island_Nat_Grid =\tab 18141\par 
   Proj_New_Zealand_South_Island_Nat_Grid =\tab 18142\par 
   Proj_Bahrain_Grid =\tab 19900\par 
   Proj_Netherlands_E_Indies_Equatorial =\tab 19905\par 
   Proj_RSO_Borneo =\tab 19912\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s251\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 6.3.3.3 Coordinate Transformation Codes\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Ranges:\par 
\par 
   0 = undefined\par 
   [    1, 16383] = GeoTIFF Coordinate Transformation codes\par 
   [16384, 32766] = Reserved by GeoTIFF\par 
   32767          = user-defined\par 
   [32768, 65535] = Private User Implementations\par 
\par 
Values:\par 
\par 
   CT_TransverseMercator =\tab 1\par 
   CT_TransvMercator_Modified_Alaska = 2\par 
   CT_ObliqueMercator =\tab 3\par 
   CT_ObliqueMercator_Laborde =\tab 4\par 
   CT_ObliqueMercator_Rosenmund =\tab 5\par 
   CT_ObliqueMercator_Spherical =\tab 6\par 
   CT_Mercator =\tab 7\par 
   CT_LambertConfConic_2SP =\tab 8\par 
   CT_LambertConfConic_Helmert =\tab 9\par 
   CT_LambertAzimEqualArea =\tab 10\par 
   CT_AlbersEqualArea =\tab 11\par 
   CT_AzimuthalEquidistant =\tab 12\par 
   CT_EquidistantConic =\tab 13\par 
   CT_Stereographic =\tab 14\par 
   CT_PolarStereographic =\tab 15\par 
   CT_ObliqueStereographic =\tab 16\par 
   CT_Equirectangular =\tab 17\par 
   CT_CassiniSoldner =\tab 18\par 
   CT_Gnomonic =\tab 19\par 
   CT_MillerCylindrical =\tab 20\par 
   CT_Orthographic =\tab 21\par 
   CT_Polyconic =\tab 22\par 
   CT_Robinson =\tab 23\par 
   CT_Sinusoidal =\tab 24\par 
   CT_VanDerGrinten =\tab 25\par 
   CT_NewZealandMapGrid =\tab 26\par 
   CT_TransvMercator_SouthOriented=\tab 27\par 
\par 
Aliases:\par 
\par 
   CT_AlaskaConformal =\tab \tab CT_TransvMercator_Modified_Alaska\par 
   CT_TransvEquidistCylindrical =\tab CT_CassiniSoldner\par 
   CT_ObliqueMercator_Hotine =\tab CT_ObliqueMercator\par 
   CT_SwissObliqueCylindrical =\tab CT_ObliqueMercator_Rosenmund\par 
   CT_GaussBoaga =\tab \tab \tab CT_TransverseMercator\par 
   CT_GaussKruger =\tab \tab \tab CT_TransverseMercator\par 
   CT_LambertConfConic = \tab \tab CT_LambertConfConic_2SP \par 
   CT_LambertConfConic_Helmert =\tab CT_LambertConfConic_1SP\par 
   CT_SouthOrientedGaussConformal =\tab CT_TransvMercator_SouthOriented\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s252\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 6.3.4 Vertical CS Codes\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s251\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 6.3.4.1 Vertical CS Type Codes\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Ranges:\par 
\par 
   0               = undefined\par 
   [    1,   4999] = Reserved\par 
   [ 5000,   5099] = EPSG Ellipsoid Vertical CS Codes\par 
   [ 5100,   5199] = EPSG Orthometric Vertical CS Codes\par 
   [ 5200,   5999] = Reserved EPSG\par 
   [ 6000,  32766] = Reserved\par 
   32767           = user-defined\par 
   [32768, 65535]  = Private User Implementations\par 
\par 
Values:\par 
\par 
   VertCS_Airy_1830_ellipsoid =\tab 5001\par 
   VertCS_Airy_Modified_1849_ellipsoid =\tab 5002\par 
   VertCS_ANS_ellipsoid =\tab 5003\par 
   VertCS_Bessel_1841_ellipsoid =\tab 5004\par 
   VertCS_Bessel_Modified_ellipsoid =\tab 5005\par 
   VertCS_Bessel_Namibia_ellipsoid =\tab 5006\par 
   VertCS_Clarke_1858_ellipsoid =\tab 5007\par 
   VertCS_Clarke_1866_ellipsoid =\tab 5008\par 
   VertCS_Clarke_1880_Benoit_ellipsoid =\tab 5010\par 
   VertCS_Clarke_1880_IGN_ellipsoid =\tab 5011\par 
   VertCS_Clarke_1880_RGS_ellipsoid =\tab 5012\par 
   VertCS_Clarke_1880_Arc_ellipsoid =\tab 5013\par 
   VertCS_Clarke_1880_SGA_1922_ellipsoid =\tab 5014\par 
   VertCS_Everest_1830_1937_Adjustment_ellipsoid =\tab 5015\par 
   VertCS_Everest_1830_1967_Definition_ellipsoid =\tab 5016\par 
   VertCS_Everest_1830_1975_Definition_ellipsoid =\tab 5017\par 
   VertCS_Everest_1830_Modified_ellipsoid =\tab 5018\par 
   VertCS_GRS_1980_ellipsoid =\tab 5019\par 
   VertCS_Helmert_1906_ellipsoid =\tab 5020\par 
   VertCS_INS_ellipsoid =\tab 5021\par 
   VertCS_International_1924_ellipsoid =\tab 5022\par 
   VertCS_International_1967_ellipsoid =\tab 5023\par 
   VertCS_Krassowsky_1940_ellipsoid =\tab 5024\par 
   VertCS_NWL_9D_ellipsoid =\tab 5025\par 
   VertCS_NWL_10D_ellipsoid =\tab 5026\par 
   VertCS_Plessis_1817_ellipsoid =\tab 5027\par 
   VertCS_Struve_1860_ellipsoid =\tab 5028\par 
   VertCS_War_Office_ellipsoid =\tab 5029\par 
   VertCS_WGS_84_ellipsoid =\tab 5030\par 
   VertCS_GEM_10C_ellipsoid =\tab 5031\par 
   VertCS_OSU86F_ellipsoid =\tab 5032\par 
   VertCS_OSU91A_ellipsoid =\tab 5033\par 
\par 
  Orthometric Vertical CS;\par 
\par 
   VertCS_Newlyn =\tab 5101\par 
   VertCS_North_American_Vertical_Datum_1929 =\tab 5102\par 
   VertCS_North_American_Vertical_Datum_1988 =\tab 5103\par 
   VertCS_Yellow_Sea_1956 =\tab 5104\par 
   VertCS_Baltic_Sea =\tab 5105\par 
   VertCS_Caspian_Sea =\tab 5106\par 
\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s251\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 6.3.4.2 Vertical CS Datum Codes\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 Ranges:\par 
\par 
   0               = undefined\par 
   [    1,  16383] = Vertical Datum Codes\par 
   [16384,  32766] = Reserved\par 
   32767           = user-defined\par 
   [32768, 65535]  = Private User Implementations\par 
\par 
No vertical datum codes are currently defined, other than those implied by\par 
the corrsponding Vertical CS code.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +--------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
+----------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s253\li360\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn \b\f20\fs28 6.4 EPSG Geodesy Parameter Index\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +----------------------------------+\par 
\par 

Here is a summary of the index ranges for the various coding systems used by EPSG in their tables. A copy of this index may be acquired at the FTP sites mentioned in the references in section 5. The "value" table entries below describe how values from one 
table are related to codes from another table.\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20 \par 
Summary\par 
--------\par 
\par 
   Entity                        digit   Range\par 
   ----------------------------  ------- --------------\tab \par 
   Prime Meridian                8       8000 thru 8999\par 
   Ellipsoid                     7       7000 thru 7999\par 
   Geodetic Datum                6       6000 thru 6999\par 
   Vertical datum                5       5000 thru 5999\par 
   Geographic Coordinate System  4       4000 thru 4999\par 
   Projected Coordinate Systems  2 or 3  20000 thru 32760\par 
   Map Projection                1       10000 - 19999\par 
\par 
\par 
\par 
Geodetic Datum Codes\par 
--------------------\par 
   Datum Type                 Value     Range            Currently Defined\par 
   -------------------------- --------- --------------   -----------------\par 
   Unspecified Geodetic Datum [EC-1000] 6000 thru 6099   6001 thru 6035\par 
   Geodetic Datum                       6100 thru 6321   6200 thru 6315\par 
   WGS 72; WGS 72BE and WGS84           6322 thru 6327   6322 thru 6327\par 
   Geodetic Datum (ancient)             6900 thru 6999   6901 thru 6902\par 
\par 
   Note for Values: EC = corresponding Ellipsoid Code.\par 
\par 
\par 
Vertical Datum Codes\par 
--------------------\par 
   Datum Type                 Value     Range            Currently Defined\par 
   -------------------------- --------- --------------   -----------------     \par 
   Ellipsoidal                [EC-1000] 5000 thru 5099   5001 thru 5035\par 
   Orthometric                          5100 thru 5899   5101 thru 5106\par 
\par 
   Note for Values: EC = corresponding Ellipsoid Code.\par 
\par 
\par 
Geographic Coordinate System Codes    \par 
----------------------------------\par 
   GCS Type                    Value      Range           Currently Defined\par 
   -----------------------     ---------- --------------  -----------------        \par 
   Unknown geodetic datum      [GDC-2000] 4000 thru 4099  4001 thru 4045\par 
   Known datum (Greenwich)     [GDC-2000] 4100 thru 4321  4200 thru 4315\par 
   WGS 72; WGS 72BE and WGS84             4322 thru 4327  4322 thru 4327\par 
   Known datum (not Greenwich)            4800 thru 4899  4801 thru 4812\par 
   Known datum (ancient)       [GDC-2000] 4900 thru 4999  4901 thru 4902\par 
\par 
   Note for Values: GDC = corresponding Geodetic Datum Code\par 
\par 
\par 
Map Projection System Codes\par 
---------------------------\par 
\par 
   US State Plane  ( 10000-15999 )\par 
      Format:     1sszz            \par 
         where ss is USC&GS State code  01 thru 59  \par 
         zz is (USC&GS zone code)      for NAD27 zones               \par 
         zz is (USC&GS zone code + 30) for NAD83 zones\par 
  \par 
\par 
   Larger zoned systems ( 16000-17999 ) \par 
      System                            Format  zz Range\par 
      --------------------------------  ------- -------\par 
      UTM (North)                       160zz   01   60   \par 
      UTM (South)                       161zz   01   60   \par 
      zoned Universal Gauss-Kruger      162zz   04   32\par 
      Universal Gauss-Kruger (unzoned)  163zz   04   3                  \par 
      Australian Map Grid               174zz   48   58   \par 
      Southern African STM              175zz   13   35 \par 
\par 
\par 
   Smaller zoned systems  ( 18000-18999 ) \par 
       Format:  18ssz           \par 
           where ss is sequential system number  01   18   \par 
           z is zone code               \par 
                     \par 
   Single zone projections ( 19900-19999 )\par 
        Format:   199ss          \par 
           where ss is sequential system number  00   25\par 
\par 
Projected Coordinate Systems\par 
----------------------------      \par 
\par 
For PCS utilising GeogCS with code in range 4201 through 4321 \par 
(i.e. geodetic datum code 6201 through 6319):\par 
\par 
   As far as is possible the PCS code will be of the format \par 
   gggzz where ggg is (geodetic datum code -6000) and zz is zone.               \par 
                  \par 
For PCS utilising GeogCS with code out of range 4201 through 4321\par 
(i.e.geodetic datum code 6201 through 6319):\par 
    PCS code 20xxx where xxx is a sequential number               \par 
\par 
WGS72 / UTM North     322zz where zz is UTM zone number   32201   32260   \par 
WGS72 / UTM South     323zz where zz is UTM zone number   32301   32360\par 
WGS72BE / UTM North   324zz where zz is UTM zone number   32401   32460\par 
WGS72BE / UTM South   325zz where zz is UTM zone number   32501   32560\par 
WGS84 / UTM North     326zz where zz is UTM zone number   32601   32660\par 
WGS84 / UTM South     327zz where zz is UTM zone number   32701   32760\par 
US State Plane (NAD27)   267xx or 320xx where xx is a sequential number            \par 
US State Plane (NAD83)   269xx or 321xx where xx is a sequential number            \par 
\par 
\par 
   \par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20    \par 
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\pard\plain \s254\li180\ri-360\sb120\sa120\keepn\brdrb\brdrs \b\f20\fs36 7  Glossary\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20    +--------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s7\fi-3960\li4320\ri-360\sa120\tx4320 \f20 ASCII: \tab [American Standard Code for Information Interchange]  The predominant character set encoding of present-day computers. \par 
\par 
Cell:\tab A rectangular area in Raster space, in which a single pixel value is filled.\par 
\par 
Code:\tab In GeoTIFF, a code is a value assigned to a GeoKey, and has one of 65536 possible values.\par 
\par 
Coordinate System: \tab A systematic way of assigning real (x,y,z..) coordinates to a surface or volume. In Geodetics the surface is an ellipsoid used to model the earth.\par 
\par 
Datum: \tab a mathematical approximation to all or part of the earth's surface. Defining a datum requires the definition of an ellipsoid, its location and orientation, as well as the area for which the datum is valid.\par 
\par 
Device Space\tab A coordinate space referencing scanner, printers and display devices.\par 
\par 
DOUBLE: \tab 8-byte IEEE double precision floating point.\par 
\par 
Ellipsoid: \tab A mathematically defined quadratic surface used to model the earth.\par 
\par 
EPSG: \tab European Petroleum Survey Group.\par 
\par 
Flattening: \tab For an ellipsoid with major and minor axis lengths (a,b), the flattening is defined by:, \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s10\ri-360\keep\tx880\tx1740\tx2620\tx3480\tx4320\tx5220\tx6060\tx6940\tx7780 \f22\fs20                                        f = (a - b)/a\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s7\fi-3960\li4320\ri-360\sa120\tx4320 \f20 \tab For the earth, the value of f is approximately 1/298.3\par 
\par 
\par 
Geocoding: \tab An image is geocoded if a precise algorithm for determining the earth-location of each point in the image is defined.\par 
\par 
Geographic Coordinate System:\tab A Geographic CS consists of a well-defined ellipsoidal datum, a Prime Meridian, and an angular unit, allowing the assignment of a Latitude-Longitude (and optionally, geodetic height) vector to a location on earth.\par 
\par 
GeoKey\tab In GeoTIFF, a GeoKey is equivalent in function to a TIFF tag, but uses a different storage mechanism.\par 
\par 
Georeferencing: \tab An image is georeferenced if the location of its pixels in some model space is defined, but the transformation tying model space to the earth is not known.\par 
\par 
GeoTIFF:\tab A standard for storing georeference and geocoding information in a TIFF 6.0 compliant raster file.\par 
\par 
Grid\tab A coordinate mesh upon which pixels are placed\par 
\par 
IEEE \tab Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc.\par 
\par 
IFD:\tab In TIFF format, an Image File Directory, containing all the TIFF tags for one image in the file (there may be more than one).\par 
\par 
Meridian: \tab Arc of constant longitude, passing through the poles.\par 
\par 
Model Space\tab A flat geometrical space used to model a portion of the earth.\par 
\par 
Parallel: \tab Lines of constant latitude, parallel to the equator.\par 
\par 
Pixel:\tab A dimensionless point-measurement, stored in a raster file.\par 
POSC:\tab Petrotechnical Open Software Corporation.\par 
\par 
Prime Meridian: \tab An arbitrarily chosen meridian, used as reference for all others, and defined as 0 degrees longitude.\par 
\par 
Projection\tab A projection in GeoTIFF consists of a linear (X,Y) coordinate system, and a coordinate transformation method (such as Transverse Mercator) to tie this system to an unspecified Geographic CS..\par 
\par 
Projected Coordinate System\tab The result of the application of a projection transformation of a Geographic coordinate system\par 
\par 
 Raster Space:\tab A continuous planar space in which pixel values are visually realized.\par 
\par 
RATIONAL:\tab In TIFF format, a RATIONAL value is a fractional value represented by the ratio of two unsigned 4-byte integers.\par 
\par 
SDTS\tab The USGS Spatial Data Transmission Standard.\par 
\par 
Tag: \tab In TIFF format, a tag is packet of numerical or ASCII values, which have a numerical "Tag" ID indicating their information content.\par 
\par 
TIFF: \tab Acronym for Tagged Image File Format; a platform-independent, extensive specification for storing raster data and ancillary information in a single file.\par 
\par 
USGS\tab US Geological Survey\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 \par 
+---------------------------------------------------------------------+, \par 
\pard\plain \s255\li360\ri-360\sb240\sa240\keepn\brdrb\brdrs \b\f20\fs48               END OF SPECIFICATION\par 
\pard\plain \li360\ri-360\sa120 \f22\fs20 +---------------------------------------------------------------------+\par 
\par 
}